This weekend London's world-famous Ministry Of Sound will host three nights of partying to celebrate 20 years since it first opened its doors. In those two decades it's become a global clubbing icon, welcoming millions through its doors and playing host to many of planet earth's DJ Kings and Queens. In light of this extra special anniversary I spoke with some of the club's heroes, past and present, to find out about their personal highlights...Michael Woods: A newcomer in terms of DJing at Ministry, Michael has been a resident at the club for a year hosting the Main Bar with his Diffused label. "The whole thing has been a highlight so far because I've been going there as a punter for years. My first time playing at Ministry was at Fedde Le Grande's night in July last year and it was one of my dreams come true because I'd been there so many times before as a paying customer.""Another great night was with Benny Benassi two months ago. It was mayhem that night, it was that busy! Throughout the year I've noticed the nights getting busier and busier and this was the peak. With Ministry being such a globally recognised club you get people from all over the world, and the UK, in there and this night basically summed that all up for me. That atmosphere and vibe were just so good."Will (from Joe And Will Ask): Joe And Will Ask are also relative newcomers to performing at Ministry, they have also become resident DJs at the club. "Playing in the Box [main room] two months ago. Just playing to that whole room where the people are there for the music and nothing else - there's no bar and a massive system which makes for a great party. ""Also the Vikings 103 night. We played in the Main Bar - we were meant to play from 3-5am but we kept going for another two hours on top of that because everyone was having such a good time. The club stayed busy the whole time until 7am. It was great that we could play that long, the set really evolved and we kept going and going. Sometimes you're put on a massive line-up where there are so many DJs you only get an hour between you, which is fine, but having four hours to play with, along with such an enthusiastic crowd, made for a great night."David Morales: A DJ legend who a regular at Ministry in its early years, David will appear alongside fellow luminaries CJ Mackintosh and Frankie Knuckles during the birthday celebrations this weekend. "There are so many good times, experience is not even the word. I guess it would be the first few times playing there [in 1991], you had myself, Larry Levan, Paul Oakenfold, Frankie [Knuckles]... in those days it was a different sound, the DJs that came in understood the system, not just the sound system, everything. It was like a New York club, but in London. The original Box... it was guerrilla. It had a guerrilla sound that rocked your world. You were there to dance and only to dance. The Box was made for clubbing, there was no chill out area, no bar - if you wanted to chill you were in the wrong place. It really raised the bar, literally."Justin Berkmann: The last words go to Justin Berkmann, the brains behind Ministry Of Sound and a resident DJ/artistic director until 1994. He worked at the club during its exciting and groundbreaking early phase. "In the third week of Ministry we had Larry Levan play for us. He was eight days late, having missed numerous flights. When he arrived he came with just a brown satchel with a few T-shirts and a pair of jeans in it, no records. This was in the days before MP3s and CDs, so I was pretty worried that he didn't have any vinyl. Anyway, he arrived in London and went around collecting records from various people: Jeremy Newall (owner of Release The Groove records), DJ Harvey, myself and Victor Rosado. And he did a remarkable job. To have him play in a club that I'd built was beyond comparison, beyond anything I'd ever imagined. He really blew people away. His set wasn't just music to make people dance, he manipulated the crowd and it was absolute genius - it was the sounds and the dynamics of the sounds. He used the lyrics of the songs to tell a story - like the pages of a book. That's a really old school way of DJing and it's, sadly, becoming a lost art. ""Another amazing night was the memorial we had for Larry. About a year prior to that he'd come to London, again on the wrong weekend, and he stayed for three months. He helped me to adjust the system in the Box, we got everything in sync so that it was absolutely perfect. He did some tracks with Paul Oakenfold, then went off travelling playing in Japan, amongst other places, before finally heading back to New York almost a year later where, sadly, he passed away. At his memorial we had his right and left-hand men from the Paradise Garage days in New York,  David Depino and Joey Llanos. There was a level of emotion and passion which I'd never seen before. Paradise Garage is one of the most important clubs in dance music history and this night was a testament to that. ""In May 1993, we threw a competition with Kiss FM in New York to fly over 200 competition winners to Ministry for a night out there. Frankie Knuckles played. This really was one to remember - we imported 200 New Yorkers into our London club and it really energised the whole place. Americans can be a lot more expressive and vocal than Londoners, who can sometimes be a little closed and uptight, so it was nice to bring a crowd over and witness the effect it had on the club. A year and a half after that night the dancefloor still bumped massively."This weekend Ministry will host three huge parties to celebrate their 20th anniversary, for more information click here. And they've released a huge 5 CD compilation too which you can pick up here. 