It has to be said that the whole clubbing thing can get a little stale from time to time. There are only so many events with huge line-ups you can pencil in before you start to realise you're becoming a sheep and just following the names promoters think will suck you into their nights (which, nine times out of ten, they usually do).However, every now and then you catch something in the listings that features big names but presented to you in a completely new and unique way. The forthcoming Innervisions presents... night at the Camden Roundhouse certainly promises to be one of those nights.The premise is mind-boggling. To quote the press release: "The illustrious Berlin based electronic music label Innervisions to join forces with one of the most influential designers of our time, Ron Arad. Presenting a spellbinding evening of film, music and artistic installation for 'An Evening with Dr Caligari' as part of Curtain Call at one of London's oldest and most revered live music venues, the Roundhouse.'Now if you're unfamiliar with Ron Arad, he's a 50-year-old architect and designer who will provide what I imagine will be an absolutely spectacular interactive backdrop to the excellent music provided by Henrik Schwarz and Ame  Dixon.Here's a video that explains what's going to take place at the Roundhouse in just over two weeks.Hosted by events agency SPL (Slowpoke London) "An Evening At The Cabinet Of Dr. Caligari" with Henrik Schwarz, Ame  Dixon is going to be mindblowing, I have no doubt about that.To shed some light on The Cabinet Of Dr. Caligari, it's described as one of the most influential German Expressionist films and often considered one of the greatest horror movies of the early times - 'a truly dark and gripping story cited as having introduced the twist ending to cinema'.The Innervisions collective first wrote the score for The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari for a performance as part of the Jetzt Musik Festival 2010 in Mannheim, Germany. So they have a strong connection with the film.Combine this with Arad's Curtain Call installation - a curtain made of 5,600 silicon rods, suspended from an 18 metre diameter ring which forms a completely unique and engaging canvas for film, live performance and audience interaction - and you've got something very, very special.As I said, it's one of those nights that leaps out from the listings and eclipses anything else that's happening on the same night.Ron Arad himself says: "Walk in, penetrate, cross the moving images to get inside the cylinder. You'll be engulfed by images - a captive, but also a creator. It's amazing what exciting things happen on both sides of the curtain. I can't wait."Neither can I.INFORMATION: 
Venue: Roundhouse, Chalk Farm Road, London NW1 8EH
Dates: 9th-29th August
Opening hours: Mon-Wed  Fri 12pm-7pm (except 17, 19, 23  24)
Thu 12pm-10pm; Sat-Sun 10am-7pm
Tickets: Pay what you can: there's no fixed price
Box office: 0844 482 8008 Web: www.roundhouse.org.uk