There are some people in the music industry who work constantly to achieve and maintain their success, especially in today's climate where the bottom has pretty much fallen out of the business. Nowadays, just being a mere DJ is not really enough, even being DJ/producer can limit one's progress - Kasper Bjørke is both of these, and more. He's had a large degree of success already, having been one half of high-flying Danish duo Filur.The cliché 'big in Japan' can actually be applied to Filur, they did very well there even releasing a special album, Peace, for the Japanese market. Since splitting with his partner in Filur, Tomas Barford, Kasper has moved on to producing his own material, working for others and managing his own acts - the super-talented Trentemøller and new group Reptile Youth. Despite being so busy he's managed to record a brand new album, Fool, which I absolutely love so it was only a matter of time before I tracked him down for a chat...Firstly, can you introduce yourself for those who may not have heard of you?My name is Kasper. I'm from Copenhagen. I'm a producer, DJ, manager and, overall, I work with music every day of my life.What's your history?I was born in 1975. Up until around 1999 I was basically just a regular youngster, listening to all sorts of music and playing around with Cubase on a Atari computer and a mono sampler at my friend's place. Then we got signed to a major label because we did some disco-house tunes that went big in Japan and Europe. We won some awards and made some more hits and three albums in a row. Around 2006 we decided it was not right for us anymore - so we decided to do our own thing as individual producers and go more "underground". My friend (Tomas Barfod) went on and joined whomadewho and I decided to make some solo albums. The third one was out on April 1st, it's called Fool...What kind of music do you make?Electronic music combined with live instrumentation and with a lot of disco and new wave influences.What would cite as your key influences past and present?From Liquid Liquid and Talking Heads to James Murphy and Johnny Jewel.Can you give me some background on the new album, Fool?I made the album during a very turbulent and busy year. Both personally and career-wise. It was a lot of fun and very inspiring to do. I basically did a lot of tracks on my own and then invited collaborators in to do FX, guitar and bass sessions. And I collaborated with my big idols Laid Back on a track also, that was huge. Plus I did five tracks with Jacob Bellens, the singer and songwriter that I also worked with on my last album. He is by far the best male singer and songwriter in Denmark and I'm honoured to continue to work with him.What's the idea/theme behind the album?Soundwise I just went along with where my inspiration took me. Of course the songs with Jacob lead the way but then I came up with the idea of dividing the album into two "sides" like a vinyl record. "Hungry side" and "Foolish side". That gave me a lot of room to experiment, on the Foolish side, and a great freedom not having to fit in the "hits" in between a lot of more experimental stuff. The title is just a little look in the mirror, as a symptom of this whole multi-online platform life where nothing is really real. Maybe also questioning a bit, what is important in this life and what is not. And it's also a nice word, it can mean to play or be foolish, which is a very good thing and then fool as in to fool someone.How long did it take to put it together?I started around end of 2010, so a little over a year.

What kind of sounds can we expect from the album?It's a very analogue sound - but still with an electronic base.Who's the biggest Fool you know?Myself.What else have you been working on recently? I believe you're a busy man.Besides travelling like crazy, touring, and having my own radio show on national radio once a week I am also the manager of Trentemøller and newcomers Reptile Youth.Tell me about Reptile Youth...It's a new Danish band that will take over the world shortly. They are actually doing it right now, didn't you notice?As a man with a keen eye for new talent, who else would you recommend checking out at the moment? Any hot new tips?Taragana Pyarana, young Danish kid who just signed to Kompakt.What's the music scene like in Copenhagen at the moment?The club scene is not that booming at the moment, I think. The same few clubs around, but doing some really great line-ups. I recommend Dunkel, Bakken and Simons as the main three venues/clubs to check out at the moment.What do you love most about your city? And is there anything you dislike?I love that my friends are there and that it's so easy to get around on a bike. And it's super safe to live in Copenhagen, everything is tidy and normal. But that's also the boring part, a bit. And I don't like that its so small. It can get very claustrophobic because everybody knows everybody.What are your plans for the rest of 2012?I'm touring/travelling a lot and working with Trentemøller and Reptile Youth - and then I am plannig to make a EP project with a good friend of mine called Sexy Lazer. From September I hope to take it a bit more easy, just do my radio show and try to stay at home a lot more than I am right now.Kasper Bjørke's new album, Fool, is available now. To keep up to date on his music visit his Soundcloud page HERE. 