Over the last couple of years I've been to Ibiza twice for the closing parties at the end of September, a time when the clubs (and clubgoers) mark the end of the summer season with one last huge fiesta. But last year after I returned home I started to wonder what happens to Ibiza once the season's over and all the party people have said their final farewells. So I decided to look into it and find out, from the people who remain on the island during the winter months, what life is like when Ibiza goes back to 'normal'.During the summer season, which runs from May-October, Ibiza sees in excess of two million visitors to the island. People from all over the world flock to the White Island in search of the world's best DJs, good music, amazing clubs and the fabled hedonistic side to the island during these months so of course it's busy everywhere - particularly in the main two clubbing districts Playa d'en Bossa and San Antonio. But, come October, most of the big clubs close their doors and so, tourism sees a huge dip - official figures from the Government of the Balearic Islands state that, between November 2010 and April 2011 just 440,00 people traveled to Ibiza by air. That's in comparison with 2.3 million passengers between May and October.The first thing to consider was what there is to do when most of the clubs have closed - and it seems as though there is actually still a fair bit on offer once venues like Space, Amnesia and the like have shut down. Although one of the biggest clubs, Pacha, actually stays open for most of the winter months attracting a largely Spanish clientele.Jade Gandey, an ex-pat who has lived on the island for two years and is based near Santa Eulalia, told me: "Aura Ibiza, Pacha and Bambuddha Grove remain open for Halloween then after that it goes quiet on the big club front. Pacha remains open all year and host some great parties, as do venues like Grial, Bubbles and smaller bars such as Lo Cura and the legendary Shardana.'Jean Louis Santoro, editor of music website Ibiza Voice, has lived on Ibiza for 12 years. He agreed, telling me: "Only Pacha remains open at the weekend (Friday, Saturday). Some beach bars stay open until the weather turns bad. We have a few music bars like Grial, Bubble and Sushipoint in Ibiza Town but the bulk of the venues are closed."Although not on the same scale as the summer when it comes to partying in winter, there is so much more to Ibiza than just clubs and bars.There's plenty of amazing landscape to check out, the famous Old Town and lots more relaxing activities to indulge in. For example Jade, who specialises in social media marketing, is a member of local walking group who organise tours around some of island's most picturesque spots. There are also hippy markets to check out, such as Calla Llenya and San Jordi, where you can find all kinds of interesting trinkets and sample the back-to-earth, spiritual side of Ibiza.When I thought about Ibiza out of season though, I imagined some parts of the island resembling a ghost town and this was confirmed by all those I spoke to - and of course the figures speak for themselves.Jean Louis described Ibiza post-summer as: "Empty beaches, empty streets, quiet and boring like any seasides during winter. The only big headliners you will see are photos on the past summer's billboards."However, I was also assured that the quietness of the island during the winter months added to its appeal. With less people there is more space to really enjoy the island's natural delights.During the winter there are also several local festivals that take place and involve people of all ages, not just your typical 18-30 partygoer. For instance the Medieval Festival which takes place in Ibiza Old Town, Dalt Vila, where you can experience markets, entertainers, musicians, exhibitions, craftwork and lots of food and drink. The festival is intended to evoke a time when different cultures and religions co-existed peacefully in Ibiza, as they still do now.There's also the San Mateo Wine Fest and Madri Gras, as well as the breathtaking Almond Blossom Walk, which takes place under a full moon and takes participants from San Antionio and through the almond orchards in the valley surrounding the small village of Santa Ines (Santa Agnes).Many restaurants close as well as clubs though, which means if you are exploring some of the quieter areas, you should probably your own packed lunch with you rather than relying on somewhere being open for business.As far as the cost of living goes, there is a dramatic contrast between summer and winter. Those who have been to Ibiza in the summer will be well aware of the often extortionate prices that some clubs charge for drinks - in some places it can be more than 10 euros for a small bottle of water. Those who decide to head over to Ibiza and work for the summer season also face steep charges when it comes to renting accommodation. However, in the winter (or if you live on Ibiza all year round), it can be quite different.Speaking about the cost of living, Jade told me: "I have a two bedroom two bathroom place which is part of a big villa divided into seven places. We have a shared pool, BBQ area private parking etc... which costs us 850€ a month - you can get a 1-bedroom place for about 600€ - these are all year round. You will find you can get some great deals for winter only or all year round but its much, much more expensive if you want just summer."Most rent includes water - as many places have wells (and you often have to buy bottled water for drinking) but day-to-day living is not much more than the UK."Menu del dia's [at restaurants] are cheap in the winter, you can get three courses and a drink for about 10−15€."So much is closed that you don't spend what you do in the summer - people live a lot more frugally in the winter."One major downside though is that there are no direct flights to Ibiza from the UK during the winter. The only way to get there is to travel to Barcelona, Madrid or Valencia and catch a connecting flight - expensive and laborious, this puts a lot of people off visiting.Going back to the clubs, many go through a massive refurbishment during the winter months in preparation for the summer when competition is at its peak. Every club tries to ramp up its sound system, improve its décor and brings in more of the world's top DJs in an attempt to outdo the other big clubs.Rafael de Siria, the Press Manager at Space spoke about their preparations.During the summer Space sees over 100,000 people come through its doors every month - that's almost half a million during the whole summer. However, after the second week of October they close their doors for the whole winter - though, on occasion in the past they have opened for special one-off winter parties.Rafael told me: "[For the rest of the year] we work on the club's world tour, the bookings and preparing the following season, designing the merchandising collection etc."The club is completely renovated, we dismantle the lighting and sound equipment,  clean and paint everything to start the summer with everything perfect.And there will be some important changes this year, as there are every year.He explained: "Every year we try to surprise our audience. Probably the most important new thing is that this year the Red Box room will be a VIP area of the main room. We have planned some new parties and concerts and there's a lot of surprises I can't tell you for the moment."As the winter months come to a close, temperatures begin to creep up and the island slowly starts to pick up a buzz again. With just six weeks or so left until the 2012 season begins people begin to migrate to the island in search of work, and somewhere to live - while some clubbers book in their first visit to the island for the legendary opening parties.Many changes have occurred in recent years, the biggest this year being the 123 Festival which Pete Tong hinted at in his round-up of the 2011 season last year. It will feature some of pop's biggest names, including Lenny Kravitz and Sting. Meanwhile, more and more of the world's affluent elite head to island supported by increasing numbers of VIP areas such as those found in Pacha, Amnesia, and new super-venue Ushuaia.For good or for bad these rich party people, along with the rest of us regular clubbers, are helping to change the island as it continues to evolve and cater for the summer visitors.I'll be back there this year no doubt, but not just during the summer - I'll be booking a relaxing trip in the winter to enjoy the delights Ibiza has to offer.For more information on tourism in Ibiza go to www.ibiza.travel
and find out more about what's going at Space by going to their website spaceibiza.com.