T.Williams makes top quality house and has carved out a strong reputation for himself thanks to a tireless work ethic and his well-produced tracks that encompass many different musical influences, but maintain a house foundation. Always on the road, or in the studio, T has dedicated his life to making and playing the music he loves and has seemingly become a success overnight. But his story began many years ago, when drum 'n' bass, UK garage and, eventually, grime were his forte (he was previously known as Dread D). I managed to have a brief chat with T, in between touring and producing.  And he's turned in a great exclusive 30-minute mix too.

First up, what have you been up to lately in terms of making and playing music?I've been all over the UK and Europe over the last two months, playing music to the most wonderful crowds. Also been getting in the studio where possible, during the week and progressing ideas whilst travelling.So, I take it you're doing music pretty much full-time? When do you get a break to do 'life stuff'?Never really get a break to do life stuff . Not yet anyway. I feel guilty when I do take any time away from music. I'm a bit of a workaholic, can't help myself.What were the first grime tracks you heard that really captured your imagination and inspired you to get involved with the music? Well, I was doing music way before grime was a genre. I started off playing jungle/drum 'n' bass and then progressed on to house and garage. I'd been producing the whole time, so I was nearly ready to stop making/playing that style of music by the time it was defined as grime. Garage music was the sole influence for me to make and play the stuff I did back then, producers like Wookie, Zinc, Beatfreaks, Deekline, Sticky etc...Which producers were really doing it for you at the time?The producers that did the most for me back then were Wiley, Youngster, Alias, Jon E Cash.What equipment were you using to make your tracks?I was using a Shuttle PC running Cubase VST 5, ReBirth, Acid and an EMU esi 4000 sampler. Plus a plugin called The Beast by NeXus.Are there any tracks you made as Dread D that never saw the light of day?There are loads and loads of tracks that I made as Dread D that never saw the light of day. Plus versions of tracks that did get a release that never made it.Which MCs did you really rate and maybe wanted to work with but didn't get a chance?I was never really into the MCs as I'm from a time when the music was more about the beats. But if I had to pick it would probably be Wiley on an old-school tip.Of course, the bottom kind of fell out of grime a little while back - why do you think that was?When the music became more focused on the MCs and the "beef" it was bound to fail.What are your all-time classic grime tracks from those majorly productive days of the mid-2000s?Jon E Cash - 'WAR'
Alias - 'Warriors'
Wiley - 'Eskimo'Grime will never be the same as it was, but would you ever consider making a grime-esque track now, just for old time's sake?Yes. I do it all the time. It's a refreshing break from doing the stuff I do day-to-day. The whole process is different and it helps productivity no end.The music you're making now isn't that easy to categorise - how would you describe it?I would describe it as bass-driven house music. It fits into the tempo of "house", it's just a bit dirtier.Who amongst your peers are you feeling at the moment?I'm feeling Eats Everything, Dusky, Huxley and Breach. These are all top producers in my eyes.What's coming up over the next few months or so, any big gigs/releases you're excited about?I'm really excited about the festivals I'm playing at over the summer. Dour, Outlook and Bloc. Some really great line-ups and some fantastic locations, can't wait. Also got a vocal track on its way which I'm really anxious to get out to the world - that should land over the next six months. T.Williams - Can We EP - Enchufada - Out Now by T.WilliamsIn terms of your house output, where do you take influence from? You seem to draw from different genres so which artists, if any, do you look up to?I really look up to Anthill Mob, they have been a massive influence on my style alongside Wookie. It's just the way they both had the ability yo make something hard and underground, but also light and playful under the same name. Very inspiring.How have you evolved as a producer, what's different now about the way you work compared to five or six years ago?Nothing has changed, the only difference is now people get to hear the music in the same year as opposed to years later.Why do you think house has become so popular in the last couple of years?I think house has become so popular because, as a whole, all UK dance forms have derived from it. So it is only natural for us to go back to the original source whether you grew up listening to drum 'n' bass, jungle, techno, garage, hardcore, grime, dubstep etc... But as we go back we bring all our influences with us, creating a new strain of the genre. It's a super interesting time.Check out T's exclusive mix below. T.Williams Mix for The Independent by Marcus_BarnesYou can check out more of T.William's music on his Soundcloud page HERE. 