Osunlade is a musician who has managed to combine his spiritual beliefs and his music in a way that is instantly accessible. His house music productions have a very organic feel to them with plenty of tribal and ancestral echoes that resonate with the soul, but will still have you dancing all night long. Starting out life as a very successful producer behind the scenes (even working on Sesame Street in his early years), Osunlade eventually decided to change his life and broke away from the mainstream music industry, taking the huge risk of setting up his own record label Yoruba Records, as well as becoming ordained as a priest of the ancient African religion of Ifa. A man whose music and lifestyle are anything but run-of-the-mill, he recently decided to move away from house music back to his soul and jazz roots.On moving away from house:I've always done funk and soul but it's not ever received the audience that the house music has because people know me for house but that's my love, soul and jazz, it's just unfortunate that house music, the scene is a club. So to do anything jazz or soul orientated it's usually live so it's pretty impossible.It's the music I grew up on and it's spontaneous. Even if you fuck up it's the interaction with the people, they understand that human element. Whereas DJing house at least, it's kind of programmed. Whereas if you're playing funk, soul, jazz, (as a DJ), every song is a new experience for somebody because they go back to where they were. With house music it's the  introduction of something new, the song that's hot or, for my case, I have to play a bit of my own stuff, for the [audience] recognition - I get bitched at if I don't play my own stuff. So those three elements go into playing house and it gets stifling.I still have fun, though. I wouldn't take a gig if I didn't think it was going to be fun.On the artwork on his records: I'm pretty much a tyrant when it comes to artwork. I fight more with people about that than I do about music. Growing up as a kid buying music that was the first thing you would look at because it would bring your attention [to the music]. It's like a calling card, you know if someone took that amount of time - even if the music sucks I can still look at it and think 'That looks pretty good'. That's been my philosophy with my albums.On working on label Yoruba:I think last year was the least that I released since I started the label, probably four things only. But, as of last November, my artists started cranking out shit and I've got 10 releases ready. And there's a movie that Stuart Baker from Soul Jazz made about the first free slaves from Venezuela descendants of Angola, so they went and recorded the traditional music - I did a remix for one of the songs on the soundtrack and took it a license for myself as well.On upcoming projects:I'm working on two albums at the moment, one's closer than the other one to being completed. Probably won't be released until October/September, it's... funk-ambient. It's kind of Bvdub meets Aquarian Moon [an album by Osunlade released in 2006]. It's kinda like that, funky jazzy.There are about three songs that have no beats. I'm really into ambient music, so it's an exciting thing. Then there's another thing which I've started on which probably won't see the light of day until next year, which is strictly soul.On making music: I don't think about it, it starts with music usually - lyrics always come last, it's the hardest thing to be vulnerable, to speak about situations. If it's lyrical and I've done it, it's all about my life. It used to be I'd start off with the piano or some drums, but more recently I've picked up the guitar. I'm writing more with the guitar nowadays.'Envision' is about a friend of mine that can't come to terms with a lot of things about himself. He couldn't envision... he has a view of himself but everyone can see him for who he really is.On living in Greece:Music's the only reason I'm there. There's nothing to do there. It's really interesting, since January I think I've left my house three times. I have a friend who goes shopping for me... it's literally the most peaceful place I've ever lived. I get a lot of shit for it, my friends are like "You're a fucking hermit". But after thirteen years on the road the last thing I want to do is go out, have a drink, talk shit with people. The simplest things are the best things and the island has an energy that I really resonate with that I haven't found anywhere else. Writing is very easy when it happens, it's very natural and organic.On live gigs: We've had a few offers already, really strange, places like Bulgaria. I haven't even been to Bulgaria to DJ before! It's been good, we've got a few things lined up - my band's based in Italy so it's a lot easier for European gigs. It's cool because I get to revamp a lot of the house stuff into soul. We've gotten a good response when we've played live. So we'll see, as I said, it's just a difficult thing - my band is a seven piece. So after fees and flights it's not a cheap option. I've pretty much turned down every DJ gig this year, apart from promotional things like In The House, it would be stupid to do that.On Burning Man: I play here every year of my life. If you're a creative person, if you're an open person, definitely one time in your life at least, go. It's the most, amazing, free experience I've ever had. I've been the last six years in a row... I'm taking my mum this year! I was like "We're going to the desert to make soul food!" She's like, 'Alright!'My advice would be to prepare for the cold, at night it's brutal. Just be open and realise that it's not a festival. It's a community of like-minded people sharing the experience of love for a week. It's as simple as that. After a week of no money you come back to the world and you see how stressed, mad and angry people are. Every year I sponsor two people, and every year the biggest lecture I give them is 'When you go, you're gonna' change when you come back'. Every year I've come out of it a better person.On life and ambition: I'm older, so it's much more important now to have a life. I'm not one for ego or fame, those things are not important to me. From my house I can see three different islands, there's nothing more I want. This is best time of my life.I would never have imagined I'd end up at this point, but I'm glad I did. As long my family's alright, my mum's alright, I'm all good. I don't want for anything. It's funny, yesterday [my birthday] I tried to force myself to shop, I was like "You know what, you've gotta do something". After four hours of walking the whole of central London, I was like "There's nothing more I want". But yeah, I'm totally content with life.A Collection Of Selected Prayers by OsunladeOsunlade In The House is available on 16 April from HERE and catch him playing at Defected's night at Ministry Of Sound on April 21.