In case you didn't know, dance music is currently taking over America - perpetuated by mainstream acts embracing (and some say bastardising) electronic music with huge success. The trashy Euro pop currently dominating the charts Stateside is a far cry from the raw sounds that came out of Chicago and Detroit in the mid-late eighties. In fact, it's hard to believe sometimes that house and techno were born in the States, considering the drastic decline in popularity the music has seen in the US over the last couple of decades. However, the underground has been quietly going through a regeneration of its own.Droog, an outfit comprised three guys (Andrei Osyka, Brett Griffin and Justin Sloe) from Los Angeles, have been pushing the underground sound in their city for quite some time - with legendary parties at the amazing Standard Hotel rooftop, along with consistently strong releases on their much-respected label Culprit. A quarter of the way into 2012, they're playing gigs all over the globe and have a stack of new releases lined up for the label. I spoke to one of Droog's members, Andrei Osyka, ahead of his appearance at Data Transmission's Easter Party in Manchester this week.You've recently been in Miami for WMC (Winter Music Conference), what were the biggest tracks there?
In terms of music trends, I think our overall genre might be treading water just a bit, there is a lot of very good music out there, but this wasn't a WMC where some sound or a group of artists really broke through and surprised everyone. At least I [Andrei was the sole WMC representative for Droog this year] didn't feel that.The more established brands only got better though - Crosstown Rebels with its ever-growing and excellent Get Lost party, Hot Creations crew are only getting more popular, and I'm proud to say that our label showcase, together with Leftroom imprint, was a very fun party.So, describe a typical Culprit party. What can a newcomer expect?It's all about a proper balance of top class dance music,  a unique setting - like a Standard hotel rooftop where we host our signature parties - and a great crowd. We've built a strong following over the years and it's a varied group of people, from the older clubbers who are looking for quality music away from the usual dark club setting, to younger partygoers who are attracted by the strong pool of artists we bring to our events. Overall, I think it's a friendly and musically curious crowd.What did you initially set out to achieve with your label Culprit?We started to throw parties in 2006, 2007 - the vibe and sound we were pushing as DJs ourselves, and our guests were playing, were catching on. It just seemed that having an outlet for capturing this, what we felt was unique about LA party scene at the time, was a more lasting impression to leave after ourselves, other than just doing parties, which are fleeting experiences by definition.We just wanted to release quality dance music that was a reflection of our combined taste and a place that is our home, Los Angeles.How's the LA scene right now? Someone recently said to me it was like the 'US Berlin'.Berlin is unique, I'm not sure if there is another one out there. The two cities and scenes are pretty much different in every respect, who came up with that comparison? [laughs] The LA scene is healthier now than ever, at least in the decade or more that we've been part of it. There is more choice now, in all different genres, than any time we can remember...but! It's not the "party all-day, any day of the week" type of environment the way Berlin is. Not at all, we have very strict liquor laws and difficult licensing rules, so to be a promoter or a venue owner in LA is much harder. LA is also a more expensive city, it's not as favourable to a strong musical community like Berlin is. Still, we wouldn't trade LA for Berlin, we feel strong sense of belonging here.What other LA artists/labels/parties should we be checking out?We just had the great honor to play Doc Martin's legendary Sublevel party with the secretsundaze crew. Similarly, we'll have our first slot with Marques Wyatt's LA institution Deep coming in May. It's great to get involved with these parties that we've respected as fans for so long. Also the more disco-influenced scene is really thriving, parties like A Club Called Rhonda, DJ Harvey's Sarcastic Disco, Making Shapes are doing so well.You guys have quite a distinct sound. Is there a musical style that's particular to the west coast? Los Angeles is a warm, sunny place that is also gritty and real. You can get all of these things in the music here. Dance music runs the gamut from the glitzy Hollywood crowd to the dark warehouse techno sweatboxes. We're decidedly neither - some of the stuff is sexy, some funky but all something that's made for a thinking man's dancefloor.What's your experience of London? What are the similarities/differences with LA?London is amazing - musically it pretty much covers the best of everything. The place really seems to have been on a major upswing lately. The parties there go from night to day to night again. In LA, the party scene in general is smaller, there aren't as many quality choices and it's not as late-hour type of culture, but our group of friends can probably compete with London's finest in party accomplishments, though.When you aren't working where do you like to hang out in LA? Which bars or clubs would you recommend?Sadly, we don't get to the beach as much as we'd like, being in Hollywood most of the time. There are some great spots for cocktails downtown like the Varnish, Seven Grand and Pattern Bar. If you eat meat you can't go wrong with Animal or the burger at Father's Office. If you don't, vegetarian options are as good as any major city out there, also there is so much amazing Asian food in this town, from Korean barbecues, to sushi joints, to Vietnamese pho etc... CP022: jozif - The Lady B EP by culpritlosangelesWho's the best dancer out of the three of you?Brett's moustache gives him an unfair advantage but it's a touchy subject, next question...And, lastly, who are you really feeling musically at the moment?Well, for Justin, any production of Todd Terje is gold. To be honest, I've been listening to less dance music in my free time and more somber melodic music, nineties hip hop and stuff like the Velvet Underground, T.Rex, The Cars and Elvis Costello.For myself, it's all Culprit stuff (demos, promos etc) all the time, the label is such a time-consuming thing. So im excited about young producers coming through our group of artists, like Climbers, Shall Ocin, Ahmet Sisman, Shonky, M A N I K etc.Catch Droog at Data Transmission's Easter Party in Manchester on April 5, for tickets click HERE. And for more information on Droog themselves, visit their Facebook page HERE. 