A few months ago I downloaded a mix by German house and techno wiz Alex Niggemann - typically when I enjoy a mix by someone I investigate their background and discover more of their music and other mixes... which is exactly what happened with Alex. I then saw him DJing at a party held during the Amsterdam Dance Event back in October and subsequently heard he was working on album. Having enjoyed the stuff he'd already put out, I knew his album would be something worth looking out for. It's due for release in the first quarter of next year, so he's still working on it and, so far, it doesn't have a title. But that didn't stop me asking Alex for a little progress report on what will be his first attempt at a long player.Alex also kindly donated an exclusive hour segment from his set at the infamous Watergate club in Berlin, recorded just a few weeks ago at the Clubmotoren event. Have a listen and download it below... Alex Niggemann Live at Clubmotoren (Watergate, Berlin - 19.11.11) by Marcus_BarnesSo Alex, when did you come up with the idea for an album and when did you actually get started on it?I always wanted to produce an album. I had the idea from the very beginning of my professional career. I decided that 2012 would be the right time because, after releasing many EPs and remixes, I came to the point where I recognised that it's time to enter the next level; showing people my whole range of skills.Did you have a firm idea/concept about how it would all take shape? If so, what is it? Are you telling a story with the album or just exploring different soundscapes?Yes, I had the idea to produce an album that is fit for playing in clubs and listening to at home as well. An album that represents me and the whole range of music I stand for; as well as two to three tracks which are definitely different to what you have ever heard from me before. I try to make every song sound different to the one before. I think it's very important in this day and age to do something special as there is so much music already on the market. Personally, I don't like albums where every song sounds similar to the one before and contains only club or only moody tracks. This album is all about music. I don't really care about getting more attention from doing an album. I prefer to get attention because of my music, which should be the most important thing when doing an album.How many tracks is it made up of and what kind of sounds can we expect to hear from it?There will be 10 or 11, depending on how they fit on the CD/Vinyl. You'll have songs telling stories (not only through the vocals), some slower, but still danceable, some more eighties-influenced. There's a song called Lovers which sounds a bit more like pop music and contains a live piano and awesome vocals on it. Of course it will also have some typical Alex Niggemann club tracks, some dark and as well as some old school type stuff and some uplifting sounds.Of course you'll probably have some favourites already, which track/s do you really hold dear to your heart?Honestly, I don't want to answer that question, because I think people should have a listen to it, without hearing any opinions from me. The only thing I can tell you is that I played most of the tracks to my friends already and the good thing about their favourites was, that every one of them chose something different. This is what I'm really happy about, because it tells me that the songs are all different to each other and that there is something for everyone.Have you had any problems getting the album together? If so, what have they been and how have you overcome them?The biggest problem was to start producing it. My studio constructions took longer than expected and I had to get my head around it's new sound. I wanted to start with it straight after my first US-tour in spring, but I didn't get into it until late summer. Another problem was choosing the right songs. If you are working on tracks back-to-back, you will definitely catch yourself using the same instruments or the same way of producing. I had 84 tracks altogether - only an eighth will make it to the album.What makes your album different from any others that are around at the moment?I think the listeners should decide that. You will understand that I don't want to, and I am also not able to, judge my album after listening to it six billion times while producing it. The good thing about it is that I still like all of the songs and I'm not tired of listening to them. All I can do is just repeat that it's different in itself to most of the albums which are out at the moment.What does your album say about Alex Niggemann the artist? First of all: That I am an artist AND a producer. To produce a single or sample and edit something which was already made is one thing, but I think making an album shows that you are able to do more than that. The album is really musically influenced, but still clubby. I played every single instrument by myself. Nothing was sampled!Any special surprises? Any vocalists? Or collaborations with fellow producers/DJs?As mentioned, there will be tracks which are definitely not what you may expect from me. For example, Lovers, which has live vocals by John Rydell, who I worked with on my Tsuba EP.What inspired the album? Are there any albums that you're really fond of (house, techno or anything else) that have maybe influenced your approach?The inspiration came from every kind of music. I tried to get not too inspired by actual releases. It's more of a journey through the music I played and listened to during the last 20 years of my life. I tried to produce timeless music.How far are you into the album so far? What else do you have left to do?There are a few arrangements to make and I have to do the pre-mixing. One song is missing. Now I'm thinking about artwork etc... But as the album will hopefully released in May 2012, there's still time for all of that. First thing I need to do is finish all the musical work by the end of January.If you could summarise the album in a few words, how would you describe it?Diverse musically, but still clubby - with a mixture of dark and trippy, as well as happy moments.What else is coming up for you in the next few months?There will be a remix for Silicone Soul for their anniversary compilation of Soma and I hope that there will be a new single ready to release on Soulfooled before the album is released.For more information on Alex Niggemann join his Facebook group HERE or keep an eye on his MySpace HERE. 