Fifteen years ago The Risky set up Drum  Bass Arena as a way of sharing his passion for the music, posting a few audio clips to a webpage with no real idea or plan about where the site may take him. Fast forward to 2011 and Drum  Bass Arena is one of the world's leading websites covering everything from club listings, reviews and compilations to its very own 'TV channel' which broadcasts live sets by some of the scene's most famous faces. I was a massive DB head in my teens/early 20s and it's thanks to the music that I have such a wealth of knowledge and appreciation of other forms of electronic music. Naturally, as Drum  Bass Arena is celebrating its 15th anniversary, I decided to get in contact with The Risky, who has never spoken about the site until now. He filled me in on the success of his business and how it all came about...So tell me, first of all, what was the initial idea behind starting DnB Arena? What did you hope to achieve with it? How did you get it off the ground?The initial idea with Drum  Bass Arena was to help spread the music around the world. I had a huge passion for the music and knowledge of basic web skills, so I put the site together and within no time readers of the site were leaving tons of messages on the guestbook, literally all asking to hear the tracks. So I put up small audio clips of my favourite tracks at the time and it really took off from there. DB fans from all over the world started emailing me saying how they didn't have DB nights in their area and the site was superb for them to hear the tracks. We then added reviews of tracks, which were written by regular visitors to the site, next to the audio clips and that became really popular as well.How does it feel to have become so successful and still be here after all this time?I'm not really a person to look back and think about that - maybe one day, but right now it's all about the next project and the next one after that.Could you ever have imagined that the site would have become so big in those early days when you first set it up?Not at all, I was just so deep into working on the site that all I really took in was what was happening at the time.So how long did it take to for the whole set up to actually become something worth pursuing? Did you ever worry that it might be a failure?I'd say it took a good few years before it was sustainable as business because at the start it was just losing money, as bandwidth to put up audio clips was expensive back in those days and there was nothing like YouTube around, where you could put up audio for free. The first breakthrough for the site came two years down the line when I hooked up with my business partner (Diluk Dias). We went to see legendary label Moving Shadow, who were then based in Soho and they decided to spend money on a banner on the site, advertising one of their new releases. All the other labels saw that and then it was like a snowball effect with the advertising on the site. From that moment on it became possible to pay for the bandwidth the site needed.Was it difficult to get acceptance from the older DB DJs and so on? Or did you manage to get support from 'the establishment' with relative ease?Looking back I don't remember getting support from artists being a problem, all the labels would send me their promos on vinyl and I've still got every one at home and will always keep them, as they remind me of great times. When we first started broadcasting our events live on the internet, alongside a live chat room in the club, the first artists to jump on board and take a leap of faith in something totally groundbreaking were DJ SS (Formation Records), Grooverider (Radio 1) and L Double. Aside from them representing the scene so well, I will always have huge respect for those guys, as that really was the start of something special on the website and live shows have formed a big part of the site still to this day.How many people use the site, on average? Which episode of DBTV has been your most popular to date?Hundreds of thousands visit Drum  Bass Arena and our download store, with currently 70,000 facebook fans - which is growing at a rapid rate and 16,000 twitter followers. The most popular episode of DBTV was definitely episode 100, where we had a proper heavyweight lineup of artists to celebrate - Ed Rush  Optical, Bryan G and Ruffstuff, DomRoland B2B Klute, Alix Perez, S.P.Y  DJ A.M.C.What's been your proudest achievement with the site?Firstly it will always be, being able to help spread DB around the world and secondary to that would be winning a Music Week award for best music website. That was a huge achievement in the face of the many other music websites out there.What are your plans for the future of Drum  Bass Arena?Evolving the website more, expanding the events we do on a worldwide basis and pushing DBTV LIVE to new levels.How has the scene changed since you first got into it?The scene has changed in many ways, there are now more highly talented producers of DB in every corner of the world, where as back in the beginning virtually all the producers came from the UK. There are now also more sub-genres of DB than ever before, making the scene more diverse than ever before and, for me, all the better. Producing the music is now more accessible due to the software available for computers, also virtually all labels are providing their music on mp3/wav [digital format], whereas many years ago we had real trouble convincing labels to switch over to the digital way of thinking.Drum  Bass is a genre that continues to be popular regardless of support from the electronic music media, why do you think this is? What is it that keeps the music going? Drum  Bass is a very forward-thinking genre, artists are always looking to push the boundaries with new production styles and techniques, making it every exciting to be involved in. The scene is also very close and really comes together in times of charity events, fund raising events, awards etc.. We recently held the Drum  Bass Arena Awards 2011 and the turnout from the industry was superb.Which artists/DJs from the new generation should we check out?Way too many to mention but some of the new generation to look out for are: Wilkinson, Enei, Dub Phizix, Emperor, Netsky, Rockwell, Rollz, Harvest, Delta Heavy, Fred V  Grafix, The Prototypes, Need For Mirrors etc...What have been the top tunes of 2011 would you say?Very difficult to answer but for me personally I would say 'By Your Side' by S.P.Y, 'Slow Down' by DJ Die  Break, 'Dreadnaught' (feat. SP) by Icicle, 'Tap Ho' by TC, 'Old Headz' by J Majik  Wickaman, 'What's Wrong' by Phace  Misanthrop, I could go on and on.Personally speaking, who are your favourite DJs/producers?Impossible to answer this, I would be here for days listing them all!Haha, ok, what if you could choose a selection of say, five tracks, which would be your favourite all-time DB tunes?Bad Company - 'Planet Dust' (Prototype)
Commix - 'Be True' (Metalheadz)
Ed Rush, Optical  Fierce - 'Alien Girl' (Prototype)
Marcus Intalex  ST Files - 'How You Make Me Feel' (31 Records)
Peshay - 'The Piano Tune' (Good Looking Records)If you could go back in time to any period and live it out all over again, which would it be? (For me it would be 95...)For me it would have to be the start of Drum  Bass Arena in 1996, as that was a very special time in my life but I also have a soft spot for old school hardcore in 1992.For more information on Drum  Bass Arena, check out the site for yourself right HERE.and follow them on Twitter HERE