One of the leading factors in what's been something of a rennaisance of house this year has been the large number of tracks that feature vocals. I've spoken about this with several DJs over the last months and there's a definite feeling that having a vocal element in a house track helps make the music more accessible and gives it a wider appeal (for better or worse, depending on your stance). One person who has succeeded in making some instant classics in terms of vocal house has been Dortmund-based DJ/producer Larse. Earlier this year I heard his track 'The More I Want' on Richy Ahmed's fabric mix and I fell in love with it, it's a brilliantly simple and addictive track that I hope I'll never tire of. The track thrust Larse into the limelight and he's been in high demand ever since. Fortunately he's managed to carry on producing great music despite what must be quite a lot of pressure - personally speaking I'd find it a little daunting to become so popular and have that expectation put on me to repeat the magic of the song that made me famous. Anyway, I digress... in 2012 I reckon Larse is going to be one to watch, so I thought some blog love was needed. I got in touch with him and we chatted about his past, present and future. Larse - The More I Want (Snippet) by LarseHi Larse, first of all, I want to know the basics.. How old are you? How long have you been making music and how did you get started?
I'm 35... I started buying records at the age of 15, twenty years ago - I was really into the hip-hop thing and started making beats then with the Atari 1040 and an Ensonig ASR Sampler around that time.What were your 1) aims and 2) hopes/dreams when you first started making music?It all began with hip-hop - me and my partner, (who MC'd a lot at the time) wanted to do nothing but make music. It was all about hanging out with the machines and having some fun, digging samples and drums.Your music has a lot of soul, and some great vocals too, is this a direct product of your own personal musical tastes?Yes. I love black music- from disco, RnB, hip-hop, jazz- this is my main influence. My dad always loved bands and artists like Earth Wind  Fire, Womack  Womack, George Benson etc... when I was a child this music was all around me. I really love to listen to all those old records and I run a party here in my hometown where I only play disco records... it's a lot of fun. It's a great night with lots of memories and old friends dancing to disco stuff! But I have a radio show too, so I do listen to the newer styles and try to pick up the freshest sounds. I really love bands like Crazy P, the Drop Out Orchestra, the Hot Natured gang... just to name a few. Larse Promo Mix for ART OF DARK/LONDON by LarseYou seem to pick out vocals that really tell a story, or evoke a feeling - so do you aim to tell a story with each of your tracks?Yeah maybe... I like vocals on a house track, for me it's important to make a song which you can dance to, not just a 'dancefloor tool'. I like tools aswell, when I'm DJing, but for me as a producer, my aim is to create music for every situation, not only to work on the dancefloor.Cool! Now I want to explore the effect that your recent popularity has had on you... So, when did it all start blowing up for you?It began with the radio show I started, 1LIVE Klubbing, with my partner Mike Litt here in Germany in the summer of 2000. It's the Friday Night Show on Germany's biggest station and we been doing it for 12 years now. As a producer it all started with The More I Want, people like Jamie Jones, Lee Foss, Tale Of Us played that tune throughout the whole summer. So it all started with that track...How does it feel to have so much attention on your music, and so much positive feedback?It feels nice, I've been doing this for such a long time and now people are feeling the style and idea behind my music. This is really cool, I'm really thankful that things are going quite well at the moment!Did you expect to have such a great response to what you do?No! It's crazy... my track So Long is in the Beatport Top Ten right behind names like David Guetta etc....THIS IS CRAZY. Larse - So Long (Snippet) by LarseIs there anyone who you would say has really given you a lot of help?Oh yeah, a lot of people. Firstly, my parents, who always believed in what I do. They supported me when I made the decision that I wanted to be a professional musician and DJ. I quit university and started to work as a DJ in 1999 and they believed in me. When I started the radio show, my co-partner Mike Litt was a big help and still is, he taught me the radio basics. And of course NOIR. He believed in my sound and released The More I Want a second time [via his label Noir Music], so he made it really big.I guess you've had lots of interest from label bosses wanting to sign your tracks... how are you dealing with that?I'm really happy with my label, Noir Music did a lot for me and I try to give them something back. But I really like to release different styles of music - I did a disco tune on Berlin's DIKSO Label, maybe I'll do another one in 2012... And I'm quite easy going with these requests, we will see what happens next year...At the same time having some success must have opened some doors for you - how has your life changed in the last few months?It didn't change that much, more traveling and bookings, which is really nice - I love to see new cities and meet nice people. This is one of the best things, being a DJ.Now that you've achieved a level of success, do you feel more pressure when you're working on new tracks?I don't know yet, hopefully not! I try to do my thing as I did all the years I was producing before I became as well know as I am - it's about having fun in the studio and having fun with making music.And, finally let's look forward to the future... Do you have any big plans, i.e. an album, for the coming months?An album would be cool! I really like the artform of producing an album, you can tell a whole story... I've been doing some remixes, which will be released in early 2012 and I'm try to tie up my new EP on Noir Music for March. Larse - "So Much Fun" Snippet (DIKSO 005) by LarseHow do you plan to carry on your current momentum?Oh that's hard and something I can't predict. I'll try to keep up doing what I love.Would you consider writing your own songs as well as instrumental tracks, possibly hiring singers and working in that kind of way rather than using samples?Yeah, I actually do. I already made some backing tracks for singers and artists and I'm planning to keep it up and push it more.What releases do you have on the way that we can look forward to hearing? Can you describe some of the tracks you're working on at the moment?I did a remix for Gavin Herlihy on Culprit, which will be released the next time. Also a remix for a big name, but that's still a secret - you will hear it in Feb 2012! Then there's the new EP for Noir Music... I'm collecting ideas and ruff snippets to get the right mood for this releaseWhere can we hear more of your music? Have you thought about producing other styles?I actually do other styles, I've released two sets of my Sunset Tools compilations on Conya Records, where it's all about chill out and relaxing jams. I produced one of the records on Formentura [Ibiza], where the ideas came together and I think you can still hear the spirit of the island in those tracks.If you could achieve anything with your music, what would it be?A Grammy! [laughs] No, I think reaching people with your music is one of the best things about doing it. But, no... [pauses] I really want to work with Quincy Jones - he should teach me the magic.2012 is looking very promising for you - what were you doing a year ago and what do you imagine you will be doing in a year's time?Things haven't changed a lot, a year ago I made music, had my radio show, just like 2011 and hopefully in 2012. I really want to travel around the globe, see a lot of things and meet great people. If I can combine it with the DJ thing - perfect!For more of Larse's excellent music, check out his Soundcloud page HERE and you can buy his latest track, So Long, HERE.