When Seth Troxler moved to London most of my friends would have joked that it made it easier for me to stalk him - as they are well aware, he is without a doubt my favourite DJ and I'm not afraid to admit that. Anyway, earlier this year the man who has just been voted 2nd best DJ in the world by users of Resident Advisor (one of the world's leading electronic music websites) upped sticks from Berlin, where he'd migrated to from Detroit, and headed to London. I thought it would be interesting to speak to Seth about how he's finding life in the capital and what effect, if any, it's had on his outlook and life in general. So, that's exactly what I did when I caught up with him the other week (and no, I didn't just turn up on his doorstep and force my way into his home... my stalking is limited strictly to the dancefloor).So how long have you been in London now?I've been here since February...What was the reason behind the move?My fiancé, I'm engaged and I moved here to be with her.And she's from London? She's from Tokyo but grew up in London, she works at the Royal Ballet. She's a ballerina - totally different world than me. It's good to have that balance, the one calming thing in my life really. It's a struggle, travelling all the time and trying to keep some kind of normal family life. But living in Islington, it's nice, you've got Upper Street there, I know my corner guy, Mr.Patel, where I buy my newspaper. Culturally, I find London to be the centre of the world - I love how small it is, yet it's so large that's the best part about city really, it's amazing.Yeah, it's like it's made up of different villages... Exactly, it's a bunch of small towns that make up one big city instead of one big city that...  dominates you. Seth Troxler , Live at Time Warp,Mannheim 02-04-2011 by nightclubber.roSo how have you found it since you've been here? Do you feel like you've grown in any kind of way?Yeah yeah, definitely. It's funny because, after living in Berlin for so long, and coming here now - I hustle, I really really hustle.It pushes you to do that... Yeah definitely. In Berlin it's like.. 'Whatever, you know I'll just sit around and have another drink, smoke a spliff... I'll do it tomorrow' Whereas here I wake up, my fiancé is already going to ballet or Bikram class at 9 in the morning. So, if I don't get things done during the day, I'm an asshole basically so I have to wake up and be really, really on the go. If not, then I don't feel good about myself either - that's what I love about this city, it's not somewhere where you can just sit around. Also there's a lot of cultural things to do, when I was in Berlin... I'm gonna make a lot of comparisons between here and Berlin cos it's the only other place I've lived apart from Detroit. Obviously I travel the world all the time so I've been around the world but..But it's only snapshots of each place I guess?Yeah snapshots. As far as places I get to spend a lot of time in, it's vastly different [in London] in so many different ways that are better. I absolutely love it... the food's awesome as well. People that say the food sucks are just out of their mind. It's ridiculous, I'm like 'Have you ever been to St. Johns?'.And have you discovered any cool places where you like to hang out?I'm really into food, everything revolves around me going to eat. So I really like to eat at Hakkasan, which I go to pretty often - there are a couple of Vietnamese places in my neighbourhood, Ottolenghi on Upper Street, all around. There's a Japanese joint I go to with my fiancé. I just try to get out the house and just go and eat, finding new places... I'm totally addicted to the sweet and sour pork at Hakkasan, it's like ...it's GOOD sweet and sour pork [laughs].Have you had any recommendations from anyone about places you should check out?Oh yeah, LOADS. All the time, I got a list on my phone. One of the guys from Resident Advisor Nick, big Nicky Style, he's really into food as well so he's always trying to get me to go to places, it's just finding the time. It's so much easier sometimes to go to the places you already know - as well, I don't always have much time when I come home, a couple days here, a couple days there... it's almost like I don't live here.Well that's what I was going to ask, you've been touring extensively over the past year so how much time do you actually get to spend here?Not much. My finace's been in Ireland for a few months too to do a ballet. It's hard because I've been spending my time between there and Ibiza the whole summer and I really haven't been here much, just a couple days a month so ...it's crazy. The other day I went to the west end and it was my first time ever going out in the west end for a drink ever. You know people are like 'How is it different clubbing and going out in London?' and I'm like 'I haven't done it'.

And how long do you envision being in London for?I'd like to have kids here. I really like England, I think people are very polite. Compared to America, the healthcare and stuff ...it's really nice. It's a country that believes in the greater good and I'm a firm believer in that myself. It's beautiful you know. Hopefully for the near future... a lot of that depends on my fiancé and where she wants to live, and her being a ballerina, it's hard to figure out what we're gonna do next you know.So, I know you haven't spent a whole lot of time here, but have you managed to pick up any London slang?Oh yeah yeah! I'm really into saying 'I have to go the LOO and WEE' - I learned some other slang... oh God, it's early...I've heard you say 'knob' a few times. Yeah that's a new one, it's a lot better than being an American and being like 'That guy's a dick', that's the thing about English slang, it's a lot more polite. Being an American sometimes it's like, when I say I gotta go to the bathroom I say I gotta wee, but when I need a number two I say 'Yo I gotta deuce'. So I'm mixing the languages, keeping it polite but slightly vulgar. Seth Troxler Live @ Lights Out, The Warehouse Project, Manchester - 28-10-2011 by R_coHow long have you been out of Detroit now then?Five years..Do you miss it much?In ways, I miss sometimes the food and old friends. But not very much, I like being an ex-pat, I like being European. I mean I love America but, what it has to offer right now isn't really much. The city is a hard city, my family's moved away from there... it's hard to describe the feeling there. I go two or three times a year and see all my old friends, but to live there - it doesn't offer so much to me. At the same time, when I did live there, I made the most music I've ever made in my life, so that says something as well. But no, I don't really miss America much.I wouldn't imagine you would. You seem to fit in with the European lifestyle a lot more. Definitely, the European lifestyle works out for me so much more than the American lifestyle. It's funny, I feel like a tourist at my home in Europe but at home in America I feel like a complete foreigner. Maybe I'm just a loner.A man of his own world. Do you get to see your family much?Not as much as I'd like. I see them a couple times a year, they're living in Arizona, it's a bit hard. We talk on Skype and stuff. I don't really have the largest family, it's just my mother, stepfather and I, my grandparents have passed - I don't have any brothers and sisters or anything so it's not like I have a big massive family like some people do. Which is maybe why I'm so comfortable being alone. Seth Troxler - Essential Mix - 07-05-2011 by R_coI guess it's easier when you're not attached to so many people. Yeah I have an extended family of friends that I'm really close with, but that outside attachment I don't have that. I think that's maybe why I'm so into the idea of getting married and having kids.My grandmother was an only child and she ended up having seven children... now, including me, she's got about 25 grandchildren and a few more great grandkids, and she loves it. It can be amazing, I'd love something like that. I saw a picture of Keith Richards in this book and he's got like 10 people around him. [I can imagine] Being like one day old papa Seth, sitting around like grandpa with all his tattoos, kids running around...Regaling stories of Ibiza decades ago......from the year before! [laughs]What are you doing for New Year?For New Year's Eve I'm going to Australia. And then I'm taking two months off after that. I'm really excited about that, I so need it. I need the time to reconnect with my fiancé. With travelling it's really hard to maintain relationships you know, it's like... the biggest challenge of my life. Not even temptation, just being away from a person.So what are you gonna do on your two months off?Go on a detox! I've never been on a detox in my life, so I'm pretty keen to see how that works out. I was actually talking to Sasha and he told me it's the worst idea ever to go on a detox with your wife, he was like 'Dude, it's not a good idea'. He said to do it for two weeks on your own first and then meet up after that. We'll probably head somewhere in Asia, do some yoga, she's into that stuff..Pick up Seth's latest mix CD The Lab 03 HERE and keep up to speed on his tour dates HERE. 