Visionquest, for me, represent the epitome of how an electronic music outfit should operate. The crew - Lee Curtiss, Shaun Reeves, Seth Troxler and Ryan Crosson - have worked hard to carve out a niche for themselves as leaders of what some have touted as a 'new wave' within the house music scene. Forward thinking, yet fully representative of their roots and history they've provided some of my best clubbing moments this year - from their label showcase in Miami at Music Week in March, to their appearance at Phonica Records' eight birthday in October. As well as their DJ sets, the music they've acquired and released through their label has been never been anything less than impressive - pushing boundaries and refusing to be pigeon-holed. I sat down with Shaun, Seth and Ryan a couple of weeks ago to talk about the Visionquest story so far...So how's the year been for Visionquest?Seth: More arguments amongst friends, that's been the biggest change.[They all laugh]Shaun: Yeah pretty much.Seth: Before we were all just best friends.Ryan: Now we're a little less "best".[They continue laughing]So has starting the label changed the dynamic of your group?Seth: No at all. We're still laughing at each other.What's the root cause of any arguments?Ryan: It's just four different opinions, not specific subject matter.Shaun: It's just differences of opinion.Seth: Exactly, it's not arguments or fights or anything. It's just having to deal with four different opinions and the four of us are...Ryan: ...very strong-minded, we have strong opinions. [At Seth] He's fucking stubborn. But we work it out.Since you launched the label, has everything gone according to your plans?Ryan: We couldn't have asked for it to go any better.Seth: Exactly. I mean there's all sorts of plus sides to having a four-person dynamic - everything gets done right.When the year kicked off did you have any firm plans about where you wanted to take Visionquest?Seth: Yeah, kinda, we already had some music chosen and the general concept of the label and what we wanted to do with it.Shaun: The results have been unexpectedly good. The response has been amazing.Seth: We didn't come out with a straight up, like, game plan like 'Yo, corporate business plan'...Ryan: We just did what we do. The management of the label, day-to-day processes and things like that, you really don't think about or take for granted cos it's not something that you usually have to do. Now we're doing it and we're learning. Luckily we've had some good music thrown our way.Seth: And got some cool friends.And how have gone about picking up the stuff that you've signed to the label?Seth: All friends.Ryan: Yeah all friends, or relatively new friends. Like Mirko [Loco] has been a friend of Seth's for a while. Some people have been good friends with all of us for a while, some people have been friends with one or two of us and they've been brought in. I mean we get sent demos and stuff, but demos I've gotten from people I don't know I've never been like 'Oh wow, we've gotta take this'. I'm not saying that will never happen but, so far, it hasn't worked like that.Seth: I think, if we're gonna spend that time and money putting something out, it's good to know that they're a good person. You don't want someone running around like 'Yeah I'm on Visionquest' and they're a knob, you know. It makes your label look bad.What keeps you motivated?Ryan: Each other I'd say.Shaun: Life.Seth: Life shit man.Shaun: Life, love, the pursuit of happiness.Ryan: Also now it's the possibilities. We've been doing this for a while and, with the label and the way the past two years have gone, more opportunities are coming to us and we're seeing more possibilities and ideas that we can project to people and different things we can do with the success of the label. Doors are opening a bit more, so that's a motivating because it's like 'Ah ok, now we can do this, now we can go here...Seth: It's cool having dreams and then you hit those dreams and new dreams are made.And individually what are you all working on? Ryan: I've got a couple collaborative projects, there are some remixes. These two [Seth and Shaun] are gonna start working on solo EPs, Lee's got a solo EP that is almost done. Collectively we've got the fabric mix coming out. Just had the NRK thing come out. Shaun's just done the first Visionquest podcast for the label. We've got two remixes for 11:11, which is a Guy Gerber project. We're remixing David Lynch, we're gonna do a Visionquest EP next year as well so next year's gonna be full on, hitting the studio big time. This year we've had heavy tour schedules, now we're gonna get back to new music.Seth: New shit. Not just eating hog candies, I'm talking about two-point-o shit!So all in all 2011 has been a good year for you, but have you had any moments where you thought 'Things aren't really going how we want them to'?Ryan: Not one of us should have had that thought this year. If we had done that, maybe we were feeling tired or having a bad day or feeling sorry for ourselves.Seth: I mean sometimes life shit goes up and down.Ryan: As far as career shit goes, I don't think anyone should complain about anything.Shaun: Careers are great you know, but that doesn't make everything perfect. Unfortunately it makes everything else very difficult.Seth: The more you work, the more you lose in your normal life.So, have you had to make personal sacrifices to make it all work?Seth: A lot.Ryan: Definitely.Shaun: Recently for sure.Seth: My year's been pretty crazy but I've not done a lot to keep my personal life, which recently I found out, has not been enough. That's a whole other story...So, is it worth it, making those kind of sacrifices?Seth: I think so yeah.Ryan: Definitely. We still haven't done enough yet and we're still not at the pinnacle of where we wanna be but if we look at how long we've been doing it just to get to this point and now that things are happening.Seth: I mean if you'd have told us, when were all living in Detroit, that we'd been sitting in the centre of London overlooking the city talking to you about how we got here I'd have laughed in your face!Shaun: And people in Detroit would have laughed ten times harder.Ryan: I think they're still laughing in some way, shape or form.So where do you imagine you'll be sitting this time next year?Ryan: Maybe in a warmer climate. Hopefully, if things take shape next year, in our own office depending on how the year shapes up.And what signings have you got coming up on the label?Ryan: I'm gonna have two EPs that are split from my album that are coming out. Then we'll have the Life  Death EP and then the year will be done.Seth: Then we've got the Footprintz single next year, hopefully with Mathew Jonson remix. And we've got their album that Ewan Pearson is producing with them. Look out...How far are they into that then?Seth: It's done. Ewan is just doing the mixdowns...Ryan: ...tightening up the sound, making everything a little bit bigger more full.Those guys and Tale Of Us have done really well this year... Ryan: Yeah Tale Of Us have really blown it up. I think they're gonna get away from all their remix stuff - they're doing an album for us and I think it's gonna be special. Footprintz just keep getting better, since the EP we released a year ago they've made huge strides since that point.Yeah, I really enjoyed seeing them at your showcase in Miami, just walking in and they were on stage, the sun was shining... are you doing another showcase in Miami next year?Shaun: We're gonna do two of them I think, one with Hot Natured and one just Visionquest.Seth: Cos we're trying to start this series called 'HotQuest', us and Hot Natured together.Wicked. For me this year, Hot Natured and Visionquest have been the two hottest crews... Seth: Thankyou. It's cool that us guys and them are all really good friends.Ryan: When we get together it's a ruckus.Seth: It's kinda funny that we're like doppleganger crews. You got both the Lees, Jamie and I...Ryan: Bobby James, Richy Ahmed... I don't really know how those work out [as doppelgangers for Ryan and Shaun].Going back to your AR-ing, is there anyone who's caught your ear recently?Ryan: Undiscovered Worlds... as far as the newest person that's coming out, maybe Laura [Jones] but she's already had a great year.Seth: We're trying to develop Matt Burton, we're working on an EP with him, really great artist.Shaun: The Konrad Black comeback.Ryan: Mirko and Francesco Tristano, they're both known but it's gonna be a new project for us. Miki Nakazawa, who's made some really, really beautiful guitar music, got a great voice - we've been sitting on her tracks for a while, we just haven't found the time to do it.So next year are you going to curb the touring and hit the studio a lot more?Ryan: I wouldn't say curb the touring, but get our asses into gear during the week more. And then finally figure out this technology aspect so we start implementing this whole 'DJing while playing live' thing.Yeah I remember Seth mentioned the live show when I interviewed him last year...Ryan: We just didn't have enough time to sit down and figure it out, and practice... once we've got the technology aspect sorted then we can work out four people doing it.What were your basic ideas about the form that it would take?Seth: The live show has turned into an idea where we're working on building these 'environment parties'.Ryan: An interactive space where we're combining a modular stage set up, where we're gonna alter the entire space. And we're also gonna fill it with visuals...Sounds cool... What I like about your live sets is that there's always a little surprise that crops up, like Daft Punk Around The World.[They all laugh]Ryan: That's Lee, Lee's the wild card. The problem is.. that's happened a couple times, so you gotta retire that shit for another eight years!It looks like you guys have a lot of fun when you're playing.Ryan: That's the whole point. If you're not having fun there's no point, and if you're not having fun no one else is gonna have fun.Catch Shaun Reeves playing at fabric this weekend, December 3, for tickets click HERE and fabric 61: Visionquest is released on Monday December 5, click HERE to buy it. VQ Podcast 001 - Shaun Reeves by svperunknown