I'm not a massive fan of pop music, or stuff that's really directed at the mainstream - but Yasmin's stuff is pretty cool. She has a strong background in DJing, so knows her music and she's managed to get some very talented underground producers on board for her album, including drum n bass don Shy FX and dubstep star Benga. Her track Runaway featuring grime MC Devlin is one of my favourite Yasmin releases. Not just a pretty face, Yasmin has been an independent woman from a young age and aims to use her position to inspire young women to get the best out of life. A worthy cause indeed - earlier this year I interviewed Yasmin for The Sun, sadly the chat never made it to print (the beauty of the media machine), but hey, win some, lose some. Eight months later and I've had a chance to redeem myself by featuring her on my blog - for this though, we had to do something that was a little more in fitting with what I covered thus far and so I asked Yasmin to list her top 10 dance tunes of all time. And here they are...Kings of Tomorrow - Finally: 
This is one of my favourite songs ever. The lyrics and melodies are incredible and it's just so euphoric, you really do get lost in this song.Robin S - Show Me Love: 
Not much explanation needed for this one. Probably one of, if not THE ultimate dance record. Still getting sampled, remixed and re-released to this day. It is a classic.Shy FX  T Power - Shake Your Body: 
More of a Jungle type dance track - I discovered Shy FX, when I heard this record. When I met him I couldn't stop telling him how much I loved this song, such a feel good tune. Luckily I didn't annoy him too much as he's produced 2 out of my 3 singles so far...The Source ft Candi Stanton - You Got The Love: 
Again, another classic. When it comes to dance music, personally, the more epic the better. We can all pin point a moment when we've been on a dance floor or at a festival, closed our eyes, looked up and sang 'You got the love I need to see me through'.KP  Envy - Shorty Swing My Way: 
I almost always end my DJ sets with this record. The intro is so recognizable and gets the crowd going nuts one last time before the night is over. (NB: Kp  Envy - Shorty Swing My Way (Carl Mo Remix) is a lovely slow jam version of this record).Basement Jaxx - Romeo: 
Feel good central. The production on this is crazy! Love the video too, Kele Le Roc was the singer on this, the girl responsible for many a classic UK Garage track, she sounds amazing on Romeo. (NB: wicked Neptunes remix of this song..).Groove Armada - Superstylin': 
Funky track, had to include a Groove Armada song in this list and Superstylin' is my favourite so... here it is.Fish Go Deep - Cure  The Cause (Dennis Ferrer Mix): 
This has got such a nice mood to it, great song, I've never really been a fan of minimal dance/house, I need a song I can sing along to and this is one of the best ones around.Rosie Gaines - Closer Than Close: 
So soulful, another classic, always gets people singing along.CJ Bolland - Sugar Is Sweeter (Armand's Drum  Bass Mix): 
If you're in a club and no one is dancing, I guarantee the drop on this will get everyone on their feet. It's something else, lifts everyone and gets the party going!Yasmin's new single (produced by Shy FX and featuring Ms. Dynamite) Light Up (The World) will be available on 15th January - watch the video HERE and Yasmin will be performing live at The Borderline in London on February 5, get tickets HERE.