Across the Irish Sea it's usually Dublin that gets a lot of shine for its party scene whereas Northern Ireland is slightly overlooked, even though it has a lot to offer. One Belfast native who has become hot property in recent times is Bubba - his bass-heavy track Dance With Me made a lot of noise last year and was picked up by the much-lauded Hot Creations stable. Bubba, or Jonny to his friends, has been working away at his music for years and you can really hear that in his productions and DJ sets. Of course, Belfast has had its fair share of political dramas (to put it mildly) in the past, so I thought it would be interesting to speak to Bubba about his history, what's happening in Belfast and what effect the 'Troubles' had on the city's music scene...So Johnny, to begin with can you tell me how you got into DJing/producing and why?As teenagers, myself and a group of mates were all blown away by the start of the house scene in Belfast - we were all going to the only club in Belfast, Sugar Sweet and we were all into DJing. I thought I'd have a go at making the music we were hearing, so when I got my Student Loan in I started buying drum machines and keyboards and just got obsessed with making beats and tweaking basslines.Can you remember some of the first records you picked up?My first record was Wham - Club Tropicana on 7inch, which was free with a box of Frosties when I was 10...I still had it up until a few years ago (I was going to do an edit of the B side Armed With Love). The first dance track I owned physically was MARRS - Pump Up The Volume on my Now That's What I Call Music Volume 10, I had seen the video on Top Of The Pops as it was No1 and was crazy for it just the sheer electronic funkiness, I was intrigued and had it on repeat (well had to rewind it and press play lots on my walkman!). And, ok I didn't mind it playing on into T'pau - China In Your Hand! That album also had Jan Hammer's Crockett's Theme which I thought was cool. I started hanging out at the record shops where my mate Timmy (Jet Project/T-Bone) worked and I think the first dance music vinyl I bought was a Hardfloor album and a Plastikman 12inch....and what about your first attempts at making music?Production-wise myself and my mate Mark decided to put a few ideas together and went into a local studio... it was a basic track with a crazy vocal not very good but we had started. I started hitting the record fairs when they came to town, buying any old eighties stuff and disco records for a £1 - even just buying records because they had a cool or crazy cover.What kind of people were you aiming to sound like? (If anyone)I loved all the John Carpenter soundtracks and I loved a lot of the Chicago Trax stuff like Phuture and Adonis raw drum sounds and basslines. I started off just making loops really and developed into the sound into filtered disco with a DJ Sneak/French house influence for a while. I am back to making a much more raw-type sound, phat basslines etc... but it always has to have that groove and funk.Was there much of a house music scene in Belfast when you were starting out?There were small nights and parties around town during the nineties, but the big night in Belfast was Sugar Sweet/Shake Ya Brain which was run by local promoter, now Hollywood soundtrack producer, David Holmes. He was bringing over Andy Weatherall, Xpress 2, Richie Hawtin, Slam, Dave Clark, Orbital (they named their track Belfast after people went mad to it at Sugar Sweet). 600 people going crazy in this venue with a killer sound system - the guests couldn't believe the response and couldn't wait to get back and play.On a typical night back when you first out there raving, where would we have found Bubba on a regular basis? And who inspired you musically both within your local area and within the whole music sphere in general?I had a great musical education at David Holmes and Iain McCready's nights - house, techno, disco. David definitely set the benchmark in playing amazing music in a fantastic environment; I always try to imagine what some of my productions would sound like in that club. I guess my mates were the start of the inspiration. We were all music obsessed - it started out with who was buying and playing the coolest records, then when we started to get into producing who could make the best tracks. It was healthy competition... even now if I'm not getting a reaction from these guys forget it! I love all the music from the likes of Giorgio Moroder, John Carpenter (the bass lines in the Escape to New York soundtrack are killer), Italo disco, seventies/eighties disco, eighties electro Chicago house, Detroit techno......What about the radio?I do have to mention the Essential Mix - two hours of the freshest music every Saturday night pre-Soundcloud/Mixcloud that was our access to a new tracks and DJs. We used to get my mate Mark's dad to record it on a 120min TDK tape, he'd have to get up at 2am and turn it over to catch the last hour - old school! Now you click and download.Would you say there's a style/sound that is particular to Belfast? If so, how would you describe it?I do think Belfast should be twinned with Chicago and Detroit (we even had a short lived car factory..the De Leorean car was made here)... we seem to like music a bit more electronic and jackin here mixed with a bit of dirty disco deepness.Most musicians can't help but be affected by their environment/upbringing - do you think the 'Troubles' have inspired people musically in Belfast... what effect do you think it's had in general and how about on you personally?We have always got on with life here even when things were really bad everyone just wanted a normal day-to-day life. I think music and partying has always been a form of escapism here from the punk days through to the rave culture of the late eighties, to now. The Troubles made it a bit edgy as every weekend people partied like it could be the last and obviously there wasn't that many places for us to go in the eighties and nineties - now there are trendy bars and clubs on every corner. Luckily I grew up at the tail end of the Troubles, and for me it was a compulsion to make music. I wasn't doing it to be trendy - it got you out of the house and hanging out with your mates... In the nineties magazines like The Face, Jockey Slut and Mixmag were feeding me all this information and inspiration, windows on other worlds rather than the disturbing and dull reality that could be happening not far from were you lived.How long did it take you from the first tracks you produced to really find yourself musically and start making music you were really happy to play out? Which of your tracks would you say helped it all snap into place? And what was it about that track that really satisfied you more than others?At the start of the noughties myself and my mate Mark were tinkering away in the studio getting to grips with the equipment (which was an Atari running Cubase a Roland XP80, Akai Sampler and Behringer desk). I didn't think we were producing stuff that was great, but it was good practice. I had been to the record fairs and bought  a batch of old vinyl, Street Sounds albums I really loved the tracks on them and a lot were the 12inch versions so lots of beats to sample. We had a great vocal sample and bassline taken off another album, so we put it together with beats and built it out and it became I'm Satisfied. This was the 'eureka!' moment - a full track that cut the mustard. We played it to a few friends, who loved it, and decided to send it off (on tapes!), Luke Solomon from Classic contacted us and said him and Derrick Carter wanted to put it out. That was a bit of a moment! That was the first full track I worked on that really made me sit back and go 'Wow this is good!' I still listen to it now and wonder how I did it with limited equipment.How did you get the hook up with Hot Creations? Have you found that things have changed at all since Dance With Me was signed?I first heard about Jamie [Jones] a few years ago through a friend Timmy from the Jet Project who told me to check out his album that was just out on Crosstown Rebels - it was right up my street so I was always checking his stuff. I heard Robert James - Sleep Moods which I thought was really cool and then I saw the UGroove video of the Hot Natured party at the W in Barcelona with the Robert James and Burnski track Malibu playing over it. I loved  the vibe I thought I would send them some stuff. I had sent a rough version of Dance With Me to Damian from Zutekh who loved it and said he would play it to a mate who, in fact, turned out to be be Richy Ahmed. Richy contacted me to say they  wanted it for Hot Creations! Next thing there are videos of Jamie playing it at Space, DC10 and Ushuaia to thousands of people, quite surreal. Things have definitely stepped up a gear or two since then - it seems to have put a spotlight on what I have been doing and given me exposure to more people on a global scale. Dance With Me was Pete Tong's Essential New Tune of the week just before Christmas which was a great present.What's the house scene like in Belfast at the moment? Who, apart from yourself, is worth checking out or making music you're into? What are the best nights/clubs to go to?The spotilight seems to be on Belfast at the moment. We just had the MTV EMA's held in the city it was the best party the city has ever seen. I played at the after party with the Batty Bass crew, Aeroplane, Severino and Azari  III... playing at 7am in the morning in a hotel that was converted into a Galactic Discotech with Fritz from Azari singing over my music watching Justin Bieber, Queen, trannies from London and a bunch of my mates getting down is a surreal moment I'll never forget. Musically, Belfast is hot right now lots of new up and coming producers and DJs, it's an exciting time for the city. You have Space Dimension Controller on RS touring the world with his cosmic space funk, Phil Kieran with his Green Velvet collaborations wrecking clubs, Psycatron releasing monster tunes on Planet E and Hotflush, Jet Project collaborating with Robert Owens for a track on their album for Riva Starr, Bicep (who have one of the best music blogs going on the web) releasing cuts on Throne Of Blood, JMX (aka John from Jet Project) signing to 20:20 Vision, The Japanese Popstars (up the road from Derry but play in the city all the time) rocking festivals throughout Europe, Deep City Groove (Tabb  Bobby Murray) pushing out some serious house cuts on labels like ALiVE and glitchmeister Boxcutter getting props from Thom Yorke...Apart from the clubs etc... where else would you recommend to someone visiting Belfast for the first time?Hopefully I'll get a job with the NI Tourist board after this.... The first port of call is a bit corny but essential..a pint of Guinness at The Crown Bar, one of the oldest pub in Belfast. There is fine dining at James Street South or Deanes. A bit of Jazz at Berts Bar in the Merchant, one of the city's 5-star hotels, shopping in Victoria Square and the Lisburn Road, and there are lots of small bars and coffee shops dotted round the city. Oh and for the real tourist The Trouble's Tours in a Black Taxi. The Titanic Centre which is about to open this year for the anniversary of the Titanic has a replica of the interior of the Titanic inside it so you can have dinner without the fear of sinking. And, for Back to the Future fans, the Ulster Folk And Transport Museum has a DeLorean on display!What do you have lined up for 2012? Any releases/faves we should be keeping our ears open for?2012 has started crazy already, I've started a new label called Runnin Wild with Chris James from Coat of Arms... it's sprung from our love of phat bass lines, electronic disco and eighties electro. There will be new material on it from myself and Chris, Runnin Wild parties and artist showcases.Can you explain your mix briefly too please?Basically this is an audio version of everything I have talked about and I think it represents the exciting sounds that are coming out of this city at the moment and a nod to the past, it sounds a bit pretentious but it's about making dreams a reality check the DeLorean ad and listen out for the George Best clip at the end... the only thing I missed out was the Titanic and Van Morrison.Download Bubba's exclusive Belfast-centric mix, below.
 Bubba's Bad Boy Belfast Mix by Marcus_BarnesCheck out more of Bubba's music on his Soundcloud page HERE and get more information via his Facebook page HERE.