I first became aware of rapper/singer KGB when I captioned some pictures of her in August. In the photos she was wearing a see through dress so, being the disapproving journalist I'm supposed to be, I called her 'shameless'. Through the wonders of the internet KGB found me and, rather than berate me for my indignant tag, she was really positive and thanked me for writing about her. Since she got in touch I found her to be a very interesting and far more than the racy image she portrays - in fact, she has a musical history steeped in classical compositions, being a trained pianist and the youngest child to have ever performed solo with the Russian Philharmonic Orchestra - when she was just 10 years old. So an interview was a must, and here it is...How and when did the KGB story begin?I was born to sing. My Mom tells me, as a baby, I didn't used to cry but hum in really low tones, almost bear-like. Born in Leningrad, in the former Soviet Union, I started taking piano lessons at the age of 5. My instructors were honing me to be the next big opera star. I was the youngest kid to have a solo with the Russian Philharmonic Orchestra, at age 10. I came to the US shortly after. At 16 I got myself a keyboard and started writing my own songs.Funny, the other day someone called me a "gangsta rapper" on twitter. LOL  I just love music, all genres  - and I don't like to box myself in. Just did a dubstep joint with a UK producer, Deco; maybe I'll do a duet with Andrea Bocelli someday... I don't discriminate. Good music is good music. I aspire to be the anti pop POP icon when I grow up.So what's your musical history? Earliest memories of music/hip hop?I was brought up on classical music. Mozart, Bach, Beethoven,  Tchaikovsky, Chopin; also Madonna, Michael Jackson, The Beatles, Queen, Rolling Stones were very popular in Russia at that time. As a teen I found myself on the streets of Brooklyn with my boombox, a cassette tape and a pen. I'd dub all the songs I liked and asked my peeps at school what the songs were (this was before Shazam or YouTube). I still remember vividly hearing Candle In The Wind By Elton John for the first time on the radio and going "Wow... this is awesome!". I discovered Snoop and Biggie that way.Basically, I've been addicted to music my whole life. Not just making it but digging it.I got into hip hop after I found Eminem's EP (before he blew up) and I was like "Holy s*** - this dude is the truth!". I always loved Timbaland for his ability to marry classical piano licks with hard beats... and I am blessed today to work with him and his camp: Grinehouse, Mizzle, Wizz Dumb, these are my homies! Missy [Elliot] is pretty dope too! I remember rocking out to Supa Dupa Fly all day a couple years back and just the other day she walked in on my session and gave me mad props. I had to pinch myself. Damn I'm blessed!Moving to the US as a foreigner, how did you set about getting yourself established as an artist? How did you make your contacts and how did you start recording music?I keep my ear to the streets for good music at parties, clubs, live shows  -so I'm always around DJs and all types of creative folks. I met Timbaland at a club in Miami; met another one of my collaborators - Kojack (Dr.Luke's camp) at an EMI party in LA.  These days people seem to find me: Twitter, Facebook, YouTube... the internet is bomb.What's your favorite hip hop era and which artists really played an important role in inspiring you to follow your path? 90s baby! Biggie, Jay-Z, Pac, Nas, the classics. Madonna is fresh. I love how she's reinvented herself throughout the years. Michael Jackson is King! Adele, Amy Winehouse (RIP). They are just real, and beautiful, with such powerful voices and messages. Coldplay have always been a favourite of mine. Sting got the best lyrics and, of course my main man, Marshall Mathers. But really, there are too many to mention. I get inspired every day and hope to inspire you.I'm sure you will... There are a lot of females taking up the mic these days, what separates you from the others?I am RAW. UNCUT. UNCENSORED. I don't hold back. I'm REAL - on and off stage. I don't give a F*** about what anyone says. I make music that I enjoy listening to. I don't care about commercialism. I care about people having a good time listening to my records. I'm the new 'NEW'. I am political. I am over the top. I play mean classical piano. I got $WAG. I break rules. I'm a hustler. I AM that b***h. I fight till the death. I'm a Russian - American Psycho. I'm like the Queen of England. The last two were lyrics from my songs [laughs], I love to quote myself.Basically, I'm not an artist. I am a MOVEMENT. I am the VOICE of the PEOPLE.

How do you feel about the state of hip hop in 2011? Sad. Rap should be teaching us about the state of affairs of our government and our communities. Revolution's here. Must take action now, is how I feel. And viral is the way to go. I respect creativity and individuality, like the Odd Future kids. Otherwise, if p***y, drugs and swishers is all people rap about, we need a major change.

How much of an influence does where you're from have on your music?It 's my roots, it's in my blood, it's who I am... always.

What are you working on at the moment? Just finished shooting a video for my next single JUICY, featuring Juicy J of Three 6 Mafia. Dropping my mixtape, Twi$ted F**s on October 20. In the lab 24/7 making music for my Troops (that's what I call my fans)... Love you guys! And thank you, Marcus, for finding me. You are now an official general of the KGB Troops.No, thank you! How would describe the KGB sound and style?That's a question for you to answer. I would say TRILL.I first became aware of you in August when I wrote about your 'shameless' outfit at the launch party for Lil Wayne's album Tha Carter IV. Where did you get that dress and why did you decide to wear it?Hey, thanks for the compliment! Paparazzi went nuts, next day it was all over the net. I got it at a vintage store in LA the day of the VMAs. I just swagged it. See how far a little ass can take you?  It's funny, my next single is called A$$. Stay tuned.

I see... so what's the most outrageous outfit you've ever worn?Define outrageous [laughs]. That's pretty much every day for me. You'll just have to lurk KGB TV - my reality show on YouTube. Watch out for my icy pink panties that say "above average", my 6-inch diamond studded Louboutins and no top. I am also working on my own fashion line with my friends TwiSted F***, pretty racy stuff.

Do you ever feel that your femininity/good looks has helped you to work with other artists? They all want me! It's a blessing and a curse.Have you ever found it difficult being a woman in what is predominantly a man's world... for example, have you ever been treated as a sex object and had your talent overlooked? How does that make you feel?It's hard to overlook me  - I'm shameless, loud and in your face.Do you have a firm plan of where you want to go with your music?I'm going ALL THE WAY - TOP OF THE WORLD! You're in for a crazy ride, so buckle up y'all!For more information on KGB, visit her website www.kgbbrand.com and follow her on Twitter www.twitter.com/MFKGB.