A pair of architects may be an unlikely source of electronic music production to some, however Renaissance Man are a duo who have been dominating Finland's house scene for some time now with their own brand of 'midget house' (no, seriously). Having conceived the idea for an album around a year ago, they are now preparing to unleash their very first LP to the world - but firstly, they took a little time to answer some of my questions....How and when did the Renaissance Man story begin?Rather accidentally some three years ago. We were working on the design of a club in Helsinki together with Tuomas Toivonen (who also features on our album). During the process the owner of the club asked if us three would like to start running a monthly night there together as we all had individual musical projects of our own and had been playing at his venues for years.  We agreed and the night NOW! was born, named after Tuomas's architecture practice, NOW. Later Tuomas dropped out and we continued running the night by the two of us. Somewhere around this time we decided it could interesting to work on some music together and well, the rest is 'history'.How much of an influence has your background in architecture had on your music - the way you create the tracks, your sound and your approach to your shows...At least in the early stages there was a clear connection in how we would communicate during the music making process as we moved rather seamlessly from working on architectural projects to music. Now, however there's a distinct vocabulary for both. Electronic music can happily exist in an exclusive niche. Architecture, at least the good part of it, ought to be inclusive. Mindmap by Renaissance ManWhat's the music scene like in Finland? Which artists are really worth checking out?Finland is a physical and mental island in Western Europe. This creates optimal conditions for the birth of both isolated, largely misunderstood or underappreciated geniuses, and non-translatable, non-exportable cultural production that has no aptitude for life outside the hermetic sphere of the island. OK, fair enough, the internet has changed things a bit but until very recently this was a fairly accurate reading of Finnish music. Anyway, Renaissance Man recommends, amongst others: K-X-P, Teeth,  Clouds, Jori Hulkkonen's multitude of projects, Siinai, Jaakko Eino Kalevi, everything related to Sähkö Recordings, DJ Candle In The Wind, Kemialliset Ystävät,  Eevil Stöö...How would you describe your music to someone who's never heard it before?It's the sound of critical house and post-tropical techno.When your first started making music did you have a firm idea of where you wanted to go with it? How long did it take before you produced something that you both liked and were both willing to share with the world?Not at all. The first track we made, made on the first night ever working on music together, was Spraycan that, later when released, became somewhat of a hit. It was a highly accidental yet straightforward process.Describe the music-making process when you're in the studio - what role do each of you play when making tracks?Actually we are very rarely in a studio together as we live in different cities. Almost always one of us takes the lead in producing a specific track while the other operates as a critic/editor/educated listener. This working over distance has made us quite good critics of each other's work, total 'criticism machines' to borrow Rem Koolhaas's recent description of himself. What Do You Do When You Do What You Do (Vocal Version) by Renaissance ManWhen did the idea of doing an album come about and how long has it taken to put it all together?As a serious project perhaps a year ago that grew into one long, surprisingly painless, eight-month-long recording and production session. In the process we created perhaps one album's worth of surplus that'll indeed make a great Renaissance Man: The Lost Hard Drives release some 20 years from now.Is there a theme or sound that ties the album tracks together? What is it?Well, originally when beginning with the work we had a number of 'concepts' for directing the album making process, but somehow they were forgotten or got diluted during the making of it - which was probably a good thing. In retrospect the aforementioned definition 'critical house and post-tropical techno' is a pretty solid description of the sonic sphere the album resides in.How does it feel to play your music out to a packed club?It wholly depends on who packed the club out!You're working on a live show, can you tell me about that - what's your ultimate aim with it all, what stage is at now? What will it look like when it's in action?Our ultimate aim is to make it 'meaningful'; something that is truly live and in the moment but is grounded in our production work. Essentially we deconstruct and reconstruct our existing back catalogue in a somewhat chaotic manner. It will be fully in action next year. We are on the show's visual dimension with the London based graphic design collective Åbäke. Some may already have seen the 1:1 neon Mona Lisa we had made for our live debut earlier this year.Renaissance Man's latest single What Do You Do When You Do What You Do is out now and their album The Renaissance Man Project is out on October 31. Visit Planet Turbo to pick it up.  Resident Advisor Podcast 273 by Renaissance Man