
	SOME SICK STUFF ON CAPITOL HILL
	For a smart guy, President Obama is as dumb as a drum when it comes to every politician's best friend: The big spin.
	This guy can't spin himself out of a spider web, let alone spin the biggest accomplishments of his administration — and its biggest failure — the Afforable Care Act, aka Obamacare.
	He's probably wishing now it had been called Clintoncare — under Hillary's administration.
	On Thursday, Obama apologized for the massively rotten plan and its completely broken- down software. It was supposed to be affordable and accessible to everyone, but is neither nor either.
	OK, it's hard to spin gold out of shredded wires, but saying that he'd been kept in the dark about the fact that it wasn't ready and didn't work was about the worst thing he could have said to a stressed-out populace.
	I'm all for transparency and honesty, but he actually said he didn't know?
	That's what crooked CEOs say when they're caught in a massive fraud. It's not what the leader of the free world says about the thing that practically got him elected.
	OBAMACARE PREMIUMS COULD RISE IF MORE YOUNG, HEALTHY PEOPLE DON'T ENROLL: OFFICIALS 
	Worse, it doesn't exactly give comfort to the rest of us, who are depending on him to know everything that's going on — especially the one thing he is singularly responsible for creating.
	He says he was kept in the dark about spying on allies too. Are the lights ever on in the White House?
	There could have been better ways to assure us, no?
	OK, it wouldn't have been easy to spin the fact that only about 27,000 people signed up through the HealthCare.gov site out of a population of nearly 320 million people, but still this guy can't even spin the good he's done.
	Like? Like killing Osama bin Laden. President O. did what President George Doubleya had been unable to do — despite his repeated pledge to do just that. Instead of making that kill the biggest, most important thing that had happened to this country since bin Laden's terror attack on the World Trade Center, Obama downplayed it.
	How did killing the most wanted terrorist on the planet get spun as a bunch of SEALs killing an old man watching porn?
	Of course we should not want the big government lie over honesty and transparency, but when a billion-dollar-a-week war based totally on a lie which killed 4,486 U.S. soldiers, and — depending on the source — between 110,600 and half a million Iraqis is thought of as more honorable than health care, well then we got a big trust problem. And it's 320 million people-big.
	MILEY'S RAP ON THE BUTT
	The night after two kids were shot in Bryant Park over a down jacket nicknamed "the Biggie," international exhibitionist Miley Cyrus showed up at the European MTV Awards with images of murdered rappers (yes) Biggie Smalls and Tupac Shakur splashed across her near-naked backside.
	MILEY CYRUS SAYS SHE'S 'ONE OF THE BIGGEST FEMINISTS': 'I TELL WOMEN NOT TO BE SCARED OF ANYTHING'
	Political statement, ironic mistake or just incredibly insensitive posturing by a 22-year-old with daddy issues? Ahh, what do you think?
	I'm sure the families of the late Biggie, who was raised in the projects by a single mother with two full-time jobs, and poet/rapper Tupac, who was the son of Black Panther revolutionaries, are tickled to know their legacies live on, across the a-- of a spoiled brat who grew up in unimaginable luxury.
	And the families of the children shot over "the Biggie" in Bryant Park? They're probably thrilled to see gun violence in America exploited on the butt cheeks of an out-of-touch/out-of-control star.
	IRANIAN TERROR
	The manager of the Iranian-emigre indie rock band The Yellow Dogs — who were granted asylum in the US only to be gunned down by another Iranian emigre rocker in Brooklyn last week — had the nerve to say, "People don't have guns in Iran. We don't have this problem there."
	No rock, but plenty of rocks with which to stone women to death if they are suspected of adultery.
	BROOKLYN GUNMAN WHO KILLED THREE FELLOW IRANIAN EXPAT MUSICIANS HAD '100 ROUNDS OF AMMO'
	Maybe that music manager would like to go back to Iran, where it's safer to be a rocker. Oh wait, he can't. Rocks are allowed there, but rock music isn't—unless the lyrics are first approved by the Ministry of Culture.
	But apparently the ministry has a new open-minded attitude. On Friday, the Iranian culture minister himself declared that Facebook should no longer be banned there. If he had to read half the boring posts the rest of us are subjected to, he'd rethink that one but fast.
	BREGMAN OUTED
	Whattaguy. Alec Baldwin outed his long-time friend, "Scarface" producer Marty Bregman, by testifying that stalker Genievieve Sabourin had also been the married octogenarian's mistress. Wonder if Bregman's wife greeted the old fool at the door by saying, "Hey Marty! Say hello to my little friend?"
	A LOT OF FOOD FOR THOUGHT
	Toronto's two-ton crack mayor, Rob Ford, who looks like the demon brother of Chris Christie and acts like the devil spawn of Marion Barry, held a news conference with a tortured wife by his side like Eliot Spitzer. In denying he'd offered a female staffer oral sex, he bellowed, "I'm happily married. I have more than enough to eat at home." Bet he starts starving from now on.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Plan 9 From Outer Space: Caroline Kennedy landed in Japan to take up her position as U.S. ambassador on Friday. Then, sounding more like she'd landed on Neptune than at Narita Airport, she bizzarely announced, "I bring greetings from President Obama." And Klatuu too. ...
	Doggone Days: A stainless steel replica of a kiddie balloon dog sold at Christie's for nearly $60 million! It's like having a diamond-encrusted hot dog when you can eat the real thing for a buck.