Still only in his (very) early twenties and studying Comparative Literature at Brown University in Rhode Island, Nicolas Jaar has managed to make quite an impact on the electronic music scene - despite his youth and educational commitments. His first track, on the highly-revered Wolf + Lamb label, was released when he was just 17 and in the years since he's managed to maintain a high level of production as well as starting his own record label and touring the globe as a DJ and, more recently, with his own live band. Quite an achievement I'm sure most would agree. I caught Nico (on the left in the main pic) at Fabric a few months and was very impressed with his live performance which sees him not only playing his tracks, along with the band, but also adding in his own vocals. A multi-talented producer, Nico has attained respect from his peers and acquired a global following in a very short time - mainly thanks to his rather unique take on electronic music which is far from formulaic and is very much in an organic world of its own. His music has an esoteric nature, almost impossible to pigeon-hole, abstract yet, especially when heard on a proper sound system, still has the ability to make you dance - which, for me at least, is crucially important. At Fabric I witnessed the power of his music... plenty of energy, space and dramatic build up though, throughout the whole performance, there was a depth that immersed the audience in sound, captivating everyone who was present.A couple of weeks ago Nico unveiled his brand new DARKSIDE project which is his first release in conjunction with Dave Harrington, the guitarist from his band. With the inclusion of Dave, there's now more of a 'real' sound to the music - the tracks created by DARKSIDE are a direct evolution from Nico's solo productions, a hybrid of electronic music and guitar-based sound.He also launched a solo EP, entitled 'Don't Break My Love', which he released and distributed entirely on his own - on his Clown  Sunset label. A brave move, but one which is typical of Nico's individual, headstrong approach to what he does.As you will understand, the 21-year-old is a very busy man, but I managed to grab him for a few minutes to get a bit of background on the new release. Here's what he had to say...Can you give a bit of insight behind this latest release - how do you feel you've progressed with the new music and what were the inspirations behind it all?I think the new material is more honest but less colourful. It's quite bizarre to hear yourself make black and white music. Inspirations always change but I would say this EP is centered around a fairy I met in my dreams. And the black keys..I see... and this is an entirely solo project, in terms of the availability of the music as well - why go it alone now? Does this mean you'll be focusing a lot more on Clown  Sunset?Yes indeed, CS is as much of a focus as my own career right now. It's a very holistic experience- being involved in all creative aspects. Somehow it keeps me more creative.Nice one. So what are your plans for the label in 2012 and beyond?I sadly can't reveal anything as of right now- but you can find some clues on our site. NICOLAS JAAR / Don't break my love EP by Clown  SunsetFor more information head over to Nicolas Jaar's website clownandsunset.com