As far as UK electronic music goes, Leeds is a city that has always been well and truly on the map. From the legendary Back To Basics nights, which celebrated their 20th anniversary last year, right up to the popular Mint Club and, of course, Gatecrasher, it has a sterling reputation for clubs. On top of that, there seems to be a never-ending flow of talented producers and DJs coming out of the Yorkshire city - Robert James, Miguel Campbell and Laura Jones are some of the city's recent successes, while Will Crawshaw, Matt Fear, Hot Since 82 and a slew of other younger talents have been making waves in recent months. With this in mind, I grabbed a few Leeds talents and asked them all about their city...Name: Cera Alba (Liam Jones)
Occupation: DJ/Producer
Age: 27Tell me a bit about what you do, who you are and your background - how you got started etc...I've been djing for about six years and producing for about four years. I've recently been signed to Jamie Jones and Lee Foss' label Hot Creations and their digital sister label Hot Waves. As well as being a resident for local night Coloursound, based in Leeds and Manchester. My passion for house music came about after various hedonistic nights in the underground clubs of Leeds and Ibiza. It started as a hobby but over the past two years it has become an integral part of me. I listen to music everyday and not just house music, I love jazz, indie, dubstep, ambient, techno... I like just about anything that creates an emotion inside you when you hear it.Who were the local DJs/promoters you looked up to when you were younger and the nights you went to?I first started clubbing in Leeds back in 2005. I used to go to nights like Dirty Disco, Back 2 Basics and Twaddle when the dance floor was ruled by DJs like Anja Schneider, Radio Slave and Gabriel Ananda. Young nights like mono_cult and Louche were just starting up back then and slowly they started to bring in the younger crowds who perhaps were unaware of the current scene. Since then the scene in Leeds has just got bigger and bigger, it's a tough business to be in as there is so much competition - you need more than a club and a big name these days to make a success of a night.Best club night in Leeds (past and present)?For me personally it was Dirty Disco. It was based at The Northern Lights (currently called The Loft) and in those days the club was so raw but it had so much atmosphere and the people there made the night what it was. Plus it was run by two guys who could be described as 'The Chuckle Brothers'. Stuart Darwin and Stuart Forsyth who were definitely as drunk as the crowd most of the time, but I must say they put on a great party...Who are Leeds' hottest up-and-coming talents?Well what a question that is, I mean I could name so many because Leeds is thriving with talent. There are a few names who stand out to me, making music which has the edge over others. Darius Syrossian is a producer who always delivers, whether you like his sound or not, you have to respect the how good the production is. Death On The Balcony need no introduction and have recently been signed to Culprit in LA. Jonny Cade is making waves in the deep house scene, he is definitely on his way to the top. Matt Fear is an exciting talent, his recent remix of On The Road (Hot Waves) was an absolute bomb and his new material is sounding class too. I also think there is some quality music coming from Ali Scott  Alcatraz Harry, Jonny Hopkinson, Kezla, Will Crawshaw, Ste Waite, David Garfit and young gun Sam Wallace.What is it about Leeds that helps produce so many talented DJs/producers?I think its mix of good support and inspiring surroundings (I mean that in terms of the musical inspiration from other artists, not Leeds itself). Most other towns in the UK will have to travel to see international artists which we have on our doorsteps. Even if you don't go out for a big night in Leeds it's easy to nip into town and catch one of your favourite DJs or bands. Cera Alba - mono_cult Podcast by Cera AlbaName: Josh Tweek
Occupation: Owner of Louche (One of Leeds' top club nights)
Age: 27Tell me a bit about what you do, who you are and your background - how you got started etc...I moved up here when i was 20. After a year of being a uni student i dropped out, joined a music college and started Louche with my mate Brins about six months later. I only ever really came up here for the music if I'm honest.Who were the local DJs/promoters you looked up to when you were younger and the nights you went to?Louche has just celebrated its 4th birthday, but before we got it off the ground I was playing around town a bit - I had a residency at Very Very Wrong Indeed, which was a weekly Sunday morning after party. I was all about Basics (back then it was at Rehab, which no longer exists) and Dirty Disco. Foz the main dude at DD after a lot of pestering listened to my demo mix which I whored about town, and gave me the VVWI gig, which turned into more gigs. I owe a lot to Foz... but i don't look up to him!Best club night in Leeds (past and present)?It's got to be Back To Basics. They just celebrated 20 years of weekly parties... 20 years! Unbelievable.Who are Leeds' hottest up-and-coming talents?The night that's proper breaking through at the minute is Butter Side Up, who throw stuff at Wire. Wicked party with wicked residents. There's loads of talent about though - Miguel Campbell is killing it, so is Laura Jones...What is it about Leeds that helps produce so many talented DJs/producers?I guess a mixture of the huge variety of parties to choose from on weekends (weekends include Thursdays in Leeds by the way), the atmosphere and attitude in clubs and the influence of older guys from Leeds doing it and inspiring the up and comers. Miguel Campbell Something Special (Hot Creations) by GourangaName: Matt Fear
Occupation: DJ/Producer
Age: 28Tell me a bit about what you do, who you are and your background (how you got started etc..). I started producing around two years ago, with a little help from my friend and fellow producer Alcatraz Harry,
who I lived with at the time, and YouTube tutorials. Been DJing for just over four years, mostly in Leeds, and around the UK, but I decided I needed to take it to the next level, which is where making my own stuff came in.How long have you been involved in the Leeds scene?I've been going out in Leeds for about nine years give or take...Who were the local DJs/promoters you looked up to when you were younger and the nights you went to?It was a DJ called Simon Frost who gave me my first ever set in a club, and showed me the ropes, so I have to thank him for that. DJs that were doing it for me were guys such as Daley Padley (now known as Hot Since 82), Viktor Valasko, Jonny Wren, Levi Lewis, my good friend Oli 8170. I used to watch these every week at Glasshouse - that was what really what made me want to be the one to be up there making people dance. Nights ranged from Glasshouse back in the day, which was one of my first residencies, to Back To Basics and mono_cult and Filth where I enjoyed sets from Eddi Zanetti, and Danny Savage. I picked up a lot from watching my friends really.Best club night in Leeds (past and present)?Back To Basics, solid as a rock.Who are Leeds' hottest up-and-coming talents?So many have surfaced, and it's just getting better. Production wise, I think the ones to look out for, in no particular order, would be Cera Alba (we'll be working together very soon) and Brett Sinclair, Alcatraz Harry  Ali Scott, Luke Pompey with his new label Love Not Money is set for big things, the lads I play alongside at Beatstreet all produce too: Will Crawshaw, Jonny Hopkinson, Thomas Olivier, Will Matiu, and Kezla. Look out for Sam Wallace too, and obviously Miguel Campbell who is becoming huge. Matt Fear - One Funk (Original Mix) SAMPLE [[Soon on Love Not Money Records]] by Matt Fear