Marc Houle is Canadian-born musical maestro, a man who has an inffalible musical output laden with synths, melodies and, often, a strong nod to the past. To me, it's great as I'm a huge fan of the early years of electronic music particularly all the synth-led stuff. Last year he left the mighty Minus Records (owned by Richie Hawtin) to set off on his own path and now Marc is set to release some new music that has sounds like it was made in the late seventies/early eighties, full of synths and encapsulating a timeless sound from an era that much of today's music owes is truly indebted to. His three tracks are being released, under the name Raid Over Moscow, as an EP (including remixes from Ewan Pearson and Footprintz) on Tiga's Turbo Recordings - when I heard the tracks I fell in love instantly and had to speak to him about it...So Marc, how's life since leaving Minus?For the most part it's been crazy hectic. I was a little worried that leaving might be the death of me but it's been quite the opposite. I'm actually really excited with what's happening and it's giving me some new life.When did the idea come about to start with Raid Over Moscow?The beginning was about 10 years ago. I had a whole bunch of tracks that I had made and sent them to Aymeric Mansoux, who filtered through them and turned the rest into something more than just a sketch or rough idea. It was just music for pure pleasure with no idea in mind to ever release them.It seems to be a homage to the eighties?Well it's more of a homage to the synths and drum machines of the late seventies and early eighties. Everything I listen to seems to have those machines some way or another from Classic Rock to New Wave to Punk or Metal. As long as those sounds are there I love it. rush-to-the-capsule by Turbo RecordingsHow long did it take to get the first EP together? How did Footprintz and Ewan Pearson get involved?The songs were pretty much done about eight years ago but they sounded like crap. Over time and many, many remixes later we finally got it to a point where we thought it was releaseable. I had sent it to my friends at Turbo to see where they thought it could have a life and they said they would release it themselves. After that, they contacted Ewan and Footprintz to do some remixes.Why release it on Turbo and not Items  Things?I think the Turbo label just fits it so much better. Their label's audience is different to IT's and I know the Turbo audience would appreciate this sound much more.You seem to have really captured the sound and feeling of eighties music with the Raid Over Moscow project, was this something you really had to work hard to do or was it quite natural?Yeah I'm pretty bad at turning things into an eighties sound. Even if I try to make something modern or futuristic, it always has that sound of Junos or 808s and the lack of midrange that sort of transports the tone back to 1982. I'm not trying to be nostalgic or retro or anything - I'm just in love with a Juno 60. Rush To The Capsule (Ewan Pearson Remix) by Turbo RecordingsWho's the singer? She's really good... how did you make the connection with her?Her name is Laure - yeah she's pretty incredible. Aymeric knew her from Poitiers, France and had asked her to sing on the tracks we were working on. When I first heard her recordings I was freaking out because her voice was so strong and unique. Together they came up with all the vocal melodies and lyrics.How much 'retro' equipment did you use to create the sounds on the Run To The Capsule EP? That's hard to say really - it's been so long ago I forget what's been used. I know the rough sketches were made using software but then slowly, old analog gear was substituted until we got to the final sound. Sort of like how an artists sketches with pencil or charcoal before painting the picture.I take it Raid Over Moscow comes from the old video game? Are you a video game nerd?! Yeah we all are. I loved that game but it was so difficult for me at the time and took forever to load on my Commodore 64. But the gameplay, aesthetics and mood really had an impact on me and apparently the others, too. The Next by MarchouleIf you could write the soundtrack to any famous eighties movie, which would it be?Maybe Friday the 13th Part 2. It's got some great sounds so I think it would be great fun to just step it up a notch.

You also have a Marc Houle album on the way, Undercover, can you tell me a bit about that?Undercover is a new album on the Items  Things label. It lives somewhere between the techno, house and synth worlds. After my last album which was cold, dark and guitar based, i decided to come back to a warmer, synthy, dancefloor world and Underocover is the result.What can we expect from Items  Things in the coming months?Ah there's lots of stuff happening from special parties to new releases to compilations. I guess the best way would be to just look quickly at our website.And from yourself, are you working on more Raid Over Moscow stuff? Any plans to perform ROM live, possibly dressed in trashy eighties fashion?! Ha! We don't have anything planned at the moment but we're all working hard making music so something like that in the future wouldnt be out of the question. I think the next stuff we do would have to be non-eighties sounding just so we dont get typecast. We really love those synth sounds though so it might be difficult to break too far away. Marc Houle's Synth Pop Mix by MarchouleFor more information on Marc and his label go to www.iheartitems.com and Raid Over Moscow's Run To The Capsule EP is due for release on Turbo Recordings on .