
CB Editions has been having quite a time of it in the media spotlight recently, with a Goldmsiths Prize shortlisting for Will Eaves's 'exploded novel' The Absent Therapist, and now a shortlisting for the Guardian First Book Award for May-Lan Tan's excellent debut collection of stories, Things to Make and Break.As you can see, there is very much a house style to CB Editions: all their books come in plain brown card, decorated with typographic and spare graphic elements. There's something of the brown paper bag about them, at once deliberately unostentatious and also something more than that, something anonymous, and covert, suggestive of the bags that might once have hidden copies of Lady Chatterley's Lover or Two Virgins.The design - and the typesetting, and editing, and pretty much everything else - is the work of one man, Charles Boyle, who published his first books in 2007, very much as a standalone experiment, but now finds himself over 30 titles down the line, with a list concentrating on experimental and international fiction, and poetry - the most recognisable names might be David Markson, Gabriel Josipovici and Agota Kristof.(In passing, how delightfully old-fashioned to have a publisher named for the publisher, rather than picking some interesting and apposite name from the ether... which is all well and good, but you start calling your publisher Galley Beggar Press/And Other Stories/Scribe/whatever - (great publishers, all) - and before you know it you're going down the godawful Accenture/Syntegra/Consignia route... So I tip my hat to you, Charles Boyle, no matter that you were modest enough to hide behind your initials!)(Addendum: Boyle assures me there is more to the choice of the name than simple egoism, the details of which are lost now in the mists of time... another story, perhaps...)I asked Boyle about the design rationale for the list, in general."Thrift was a strong element," he says, adding in parentheses that he's from Yorkshire. "I worked in back-room jobs in mainstream publishing for many years - copy-editing, then text design and typesetting as the publishers belatedly realised that they could use these machines on their desks to do this work in-house - and when I started CBe I went for typographic covers because I could do them myself, didn't need to pay an outside designer."The brown card was also a homage to Alan Ross, editor of the London Magazine, who, Boyle says, regularly published his (Boyle's) poems, and had a short-lived book line, London Magazine Editions, that had a similar look - designed by Ron Costley ("who was text designer at Faber when I worked there in the 90s.")."And the brown card because (b) the printer I found by Googling 'printer west london', Blissetts, 10 minutes from my desk, just happened to keep the brown card in stock (with any other printer I'd probably have to buy it in myself)." Of such serendipities and lines of least resistance are great cultural monuments made!Tan's story collection, Boyle says, is "an interesting case. I had assumed she'd want an illustrated cover, and we did full-colour picture roughs as well as brown-card ones, and we briefly thought about doing the book in two versions, colour cover and brown card, but right from the start she was favouring the brown-card look. It was how she saw the book."Boyle generously shared a couple various design roughs with me, and I asked Tan about her thoughts on the process."I resisted the photo cover," she says, "out of fear that the image of the girl would come to personify one of the book's characters. I am intentionally vague when it comes to physical characterisation, and wherever possible I will leave a character's gender (and therefore, sexual orientation) and ethnicity open to interpretation. Because I was bred on a literary canon in which I rarely saw myself represented, I'm conscious of leaving blank spaces on to which readers may project themselves."A photo cover suggests to me that the work contained within is driven by plot or character. As a writer it's my job to tell a story and I'm not averse to doing so, but what really guides the work is language itself, its cadence and melody, and its sculptural presence on the page. I felt that an all-text cover best represented these concerns."More generally, about CB Editions, she said this: "Almost as much as I enjoy reading, I enjoy the sensory and emotional elements that connect me to the work: the feeling of privacy, of being told secrets, and the tactile pleasure of holding a book in my hands and feeling the paper warm beneath my touch. CBe's signature manila covers, aside from being iconic, appear clandestine. They seem to say: I come from underground. And anyone who has ever touched a CBe book cover knows that its smooth matte texture most closely resembles that of skin.​"Clandestine - yes! I knew we'd get there in the end. The sense of contraband, of illicit content is very much what I was thinking. And there is some edgy and provocative material in the collection, which starts out familiarly enough in a world that seems not too far removed from Bret Easton Ellis - dazed teenagers and youngsters whacked out on drugs, sex and overweening coolness - but which, like him at his best, and unlike his poorer imitators, ends up somewhere far darker. Any writer could kill off a character in a car crash, but it takes a certain confidence - and a large amount of talent to back that up - to near-kill a character in a car crash, thrown through the windscreen from the passenger seat, then have them crawl back inside the vehicle, their dad dead at the wheel, and try to drive themselves home.Going back to Boyle, he also said this of his books: "I think a batch of them together look fine, but single copies on the shelves of Waterstones pretty well disappear." Well, it was face-up on a table in an independent bookshop that I saw and picked up and bought Things to Make and Break, just as it was, I think, in another one, face-out on a shelf, that I picked up and bought The Absent Therapist.As I've said on this blog before, a less-is-more approach can work wonders... so long as everyone else is plumping for 'more'. Much as I love and appreciate these books, if everyone went for 'less', for brown card and typography only, well, I'd soon enough find myself yearning for a photographic cover, I'm sure!