All book design - like all craft, all art - is a shuttling negotiation between tradition and experiment, the way it was and the way it might be. As a result, it might sometimes seem as if this blog is fixated with the retro mode in design, with books that look more than a little like books used to be, in the 'good old days'. Although perhaps that's also something to do with the cultural situation in which books currently find themselves. Those inclined to buy physical books are by definition old-fashioned, traditionalists, sticks-in-the-mud, therefore - might go the thinking - book design should appeal to them by making new books look like old books, even as they try to look new and exciting at the same time.That's certainly the case - although not - with this week's book, a new Penguin edition of Nairn's London, originally published in 1966. This is, in the author's own description, "not a normal guide" to the buildings and lived environment of the capital, but rather, "simply [his] personal list of the best things in London".It is certainly a charming and eye-opening list of the famous and unknown, amusingly and sometimes cattily glossed. Opened at random I find the Wallace Collection: "an overwhelming, suffocating display of expensive nineteenth-century taste. With all the gilded clocks and boiseries it feels exactly like a provincial French museum"; Beckton gas works: "one of the most moving bits of industrial landscape in London"; and Holland Park Mews ("a cathedral among mewses [...] chi-chi cottages above, and specialist car repairers below").What Penguin have done is brought out a  facsimile edition of the original - much-loved and out of print as it was. Of course, times have changed, and many of entries are of historical interest only (the Beckton gas works ceased operations in 1970 and was partly demolished by Stanley Kubrick during the filming of Full Metal Jacket, for instance.)The contents - charming as they are - can take care of themselves. What is of particular interest to this blog is what we can learn about the changing design and production of books from the reissue. I spoke to Imogen Scott, Production Controller, and emailed Jim Stoddart, Art Director, about the process.Stoddart began by describing the point of the reissue: "Nairn is a bit of a cult figure and we have had a surprising amount of requests to put Nairn's London back into print. When it came out in 1966 Alan Aldridge was Art Director at Penguin and the cover they put on this book is superb (- designed by Michael Norris), combining the front of an iconic London Routemaster with the golden proportions of the Penguin paperback. Add to that Ian Nairn waving from the driving seat, and the title written on the bus blinds - and what's not to love? It's a little chunk of perfection."The only changes to the new cover are a pair of quotes (from Jonathan Meades and Gavin Stamp - he of Private Eye's 'Nooks and Corners' column) on the ad spaces either side of those bus blinds, in place of the original list of some of Nairn's 'destinations'; a descriptor at bottom ("Original 1966 edition") and the up-to-date Penguin logo top left - Penguinophiles will note that s/he is facing the opposite direction from her/his 1960s ancestor.Stoddart goes on: "I really think that physically this is one of the cutest little paperbacks we'll ever publish (in lovely juxtaposition to the fiery, impassioned and opinionated writing inside!)", adding that it was "a pleasure and a labour of love" to bring it back.Scott helped me out with details of that labour. There were only a couple of original copies of the book in the Penguin archive - and none at all of the images on file, which meant that copies had to be sliced up and sacrificed for the sake of getting at the images - which itself meant buying up good quality copies from the secondhand market.First of all Scott had the scalpeled images scanned, but found - once they had had digital proofs produced - that the rescanned images, even after descreening, were still showing what's called 'moiré patterns' - the kind of secondary blurring and loss of definition you get with some newsprint, or if you take a photo of a TV image. For her second attempt Scott had high quality photographs taken of the images, and these are what was used.The text, meanwhile, was completely rekeyed, i.e. it was retyped from the pages, rather than being scanned, which seemed to me a ludicrously old school way of going about it, seeing as my (hardly expensive) home printer comes with 'scan as text' software. But no, you get more errors that way, apparently. And I guess Penguin have the typists with the skills.I also asked Scott about the production of the book. It does feel old in the hand, with its slightly grey paper stock, and narrow margins. She said that, in keeping with the unfussy 'for-the-masses' ethos of the original edition, they used the standard, inexpensive Penguin Classics paper, which is, she said, greyer than the creamier paper you'd get or a mass market paperback. True - up to a point. Compare these three Penguin paperbacks: top to bottom in the image a Penguin Books paperback from 2014; a Penguin Classic from 2003; and at bottom (or on top of the pile) Nairn's London.
The Nairn certainly looks greyer to me, and the tight line spacing makes it feel traditional, and referencey - the small margins echoed by the cover itself, with the bus squeezed right to the edges, all of which accentuates the pocket-sizedness of the thing. Which is, after all, the point. It's a book you want to slip into your pocket or bag every time you set out into the streets of the capital, to see what is lost, and what remains - perhaps alongside Owen Hatherley's Guide to the New Ruins of Great Britain.