Last week I spoke about some plain-looking - but lovely - jacketless hardbacks. This week I'm still on the minimalist tip, thanks to these first offerings from new publisher Fitzcarraldo Editions. They are paperback, not hardback, though the word is misleading: this is a lovely, slightly textured card, with the jacket flaps folding back almost all the way back to the spine, exquisitely long as a John Barrymore collar.

The cover design is spare, with just the author and title in generously spaced uppercase type and, at the bottom, the publisher name and device, this latter blind-embossed: a bell inside a circle.The bell, and indeed the publisher's name, is perhaps a reference to the Werner Herzog film in which Klaus Kinski undertakes the punishingly absurd task of building an opera house in the Amazonian rainforest. Publisher Jacques Testard, in a piece for the Foyles website, admits the name "could be construed as a not-so-subtle metaphor on the idiocy of printing and selling books in this day and age." But he disagrees. He "just think[s] it's a good name".Fitzcarraldo's designer, Ray O'Meara, however, suggests that the link is more straightforward, with the bell being the one the bell being "that of Iquitos Cathedral which Fitzcarraldo rings while demanding there be an opera house".O'Meara and Testard have worked together before, on the beautifully put together literary journal The White Review, which Testard co-edits. There is a definite overlap in the styles, with O'Meara having supplied a similar typeface for the magazine title.O'Meara's typeface for the books, Fitzcarraldo, is slightly heavier than that for the Review. As he describes it: "it is an old-stlye serif - the broader theme being the Dutch Golden Age. In terms of its design, we wanted a weight and form that would keep movement for the reader but have a dark colour on page - something that brings contrast to the layout and a severity to the design overall."Severity is a good word: these books aren't mucking about, and it does match the seriousness of the first two publications, one of which, Memory Theatre by philosopher Simon Critchley, is a strange hybrid essay/story in which the author inherits, among the papers of an old teacher, a series of quasi-astrological charts, one of which seems to predict his own death.The other, Zone by Mathias Enard, is a huge, 520pp novel about war, terrorism and violence in the countries around the Mediterranean, from Barcelona to the Balkans and North Africa, and comes in huge, unparagraphed blocks of text. A seller of 60,000 in native Enard's France, this difficult book, in translation, is a brave opener from Fitzcarraldo.But, then, the design matches the intention - in O'Meara's apposite phrase, the design for the imprint is "classical, radically so" and "something of intense simplicity".Those words are obviously ones that bounced around the room during discussions between publisher, and designer (whom I emailed separately for this post). As Testard has it:"I grew up reading the Collection Blanche books published by Gallimard, and the Minuit books, and I had this notion that returning to something approaching that classical cover design would be something of a radical statement in this day and age, where most book covers are attempting to give a sense of the general mood and theme of a book. We didn't want that: we wanted to make elegant, desirable books, that would sit well together as a collection, and that would stand out in a bookshop by the radical simplicity of their cover designs."

Add to those French references, "Ulysses-era Bodley Head", from O'Meara, and you have a definite aesthetic that, like those hardbacks last week, hark back to a less feverishly marketing-lead market place, a bookshop environment where readers might need time to work out what what they are looking for, rather than simply have to deal with a million voices all clamouring, "Buy me! Buy me!" It's a grown-up response, assuming and calling for a level of engagement from the reader, and is all the more heartening for that.