In terms of writing about book covers on the web, one thing you see a lot of is UK vs US covers, as in: who has the best designers? Or, what can we learn about the different markets on either side of the Atlantic, their assumptions about their readers, their priorities when it comes to the look of a book.With that in mind, but not wanting to restrict ourselves to those two countries, here are some covers for Idiopathy, the debut novel from Sam Byers (who, disclosure, I know through studying Creative Writing at UEA). As this would have been his first experience of being published, I asked Byers how he found the process, and what he thought of how his books look in different countries - Idiopathy is being published more or less simultaneously in the UK, US, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Greece, with others including Poland, Italy, Israel, Denmark, Brazil and Spain to come.Of the UK cover, first of all:The UK cover is certainly arresting, but I've picked as the one at the top of the page - and so the one that will feature as thumbnail on the blog index - the US cover, by Joanna Néborksy, which I love (especially the detail of 'a novel' being formed out of cigarette smoke). The cow-headed people, in Néborksy's "jittery ink drawings"/"retro-fried collage" (words taken from the artist's website), are very hip, very now, but also show a close reading of the book.They address that perennial question of how you depict characters on book covers - usually you never do, outside of historical fiction, or only from the back, or majorly cropped, or thoroughly cartoonised. Here the body language of Katherine, the bitter, ultra-cynical, self-disgusted heart of the book, tells you pretty much all you need to know about her.Of the other foreign covers, Byers says:I actually like the Dutch cover a lot - without knowing much about the Dutch market, this looks quite a lot like an cover from a US indie publisher. An interesting, too, how almost twee it is, with its hand-lettering and little stars. It looks great, but anyone reading the book with only this for a guide is going to find it dark, dark, dark...For an intriguing insight into how fiction works in translation, look at the Greek cover, with the cute collage cow holding up a mirror to the reader. This is actually part of a series of translated fiction from Greek publishers Ikaros that includes - get this! - Cervantes, Burroughs, Kafka, and William Golding. In fact, there's only one other living writer in the series (all wonderfully designed by Chris Kourtoglou - do look at them here), the American Anthony Marra. The mix of old and new is very refreshing, and makes a change from marketing classics as just classics.As for my choice of the US cover at the top of this post, Byers inadvertently addressed that issue:I haven't seen the finished UK book yet, and I'm sure he's right, but the question of designing for clicks or for pick-ups is one that's going to get more and more fraught in years to come.