So we have the shortlist, which leads me naturally to rack up the six books in the running for the 2014 Man Booker Prize and judge them on the purely cosmetic basis of their good looks. In alphabetical order of the authors, then:First up, Joshua Ferris's To Rise Again At A Decent Hour (links to reviews), which is a good a way as any to mark the arrival of US authors to Booker-land, with its unimpeachably American title, very much in the style of Dave Eggers. Not unnaturally, the design makes much of this, throwing up the title in huge bright typefaces as part of a cover that seems to be aping 1950s advertising, put through a cleaning filter of contemporary stylings.That healthy, huggable tooth! (the main character is a dentist) the chirpy handpainted words at the top, with their chipper sun, contrasting with the decent, dependable capitals below, and the promotional messages subtly appended to a pair of banners at bottom. The bonhomie of the design is doubtless subtly ironic - will there be a cavity at the heart of the American dream? - but that is secondary. The post-war look is redolent of happier times, and whatever else is going on the novel it does no harm to look fun and approachable.The contrast with Richard Flanagan's The Narrow Road to the Deep North couldn't be more stark. Here is a serious book, from its serif font (some form of Bodoni?) to its generic self-advertisement ("A Novel") to the imagery - a detail (necessarily) of something antique, with a pedigree, that you'll have to look at the back flap to check. (In fact, as I have this book my desk I can help you out. This is a Japanese woodblock engraving by Kan'en Iwasaki - a botanist and samurai from the Edo period. The cover design itself is by Suzanne Dean.)It is serious enough not to have any quotes on the front, nor even mention of other book titles - something of a rarity these days, even for supposedly bankable writers. That said, this seriousness suits the book's subject, which is the building of the Thailand-Burma Death Railway in the Second World War, and the experience of an Australian officer in a Japanese POW camp. The woodcut works in parallel with the title, which is taken from the famous book by Basho, to give a sense of the grandeur and sensitivity of Japanese culture, even as the book explores one of the country's worst humanitarian atrocities. To that extent it's a good, solid cover, if a little unadventurous.I have to say I'm not a fan of the Karen Joy Fowler cover, for We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves, which seems rather like a late addition to the papercutting vogue that has flourished in the wake of Rob Ryan, though this is far from being a rip-off.I don't particularly like the tree, I don't get the relevance of the red leaves, and I don't like the silhouette of the child swinging, not least because they're not attached to the tree. And - having read the book (the only one of the shortlist thus far, though this will change) - the image doesn't make any more sense after the event. (And this is a book that alters dramatically from its first impressions.) At least, unlike other international editions, this one doesn't give the game away.Then on to the Jacobson. A chance to repeat his 2010 Man Booker win (for The Finkler Question), J (click here to read an exclusive extract) is a step away from the author's usual comic style, though not his usual preoccupations of Jewishness, anti-Semitism and  male-female relationships.
It's a startling cover - one that I wish had been around when I produced my A-Z of Book Covers earlier in the year. The treatment of the single initial has a touch of the Franz Kline about it, if not actually some dystopian graphic novel that I've never heard of, and the stark swipes of red do their unsettling job very well.Neel Mukherjee's The Lives of Others returns a little to the safe approachability of the Fowler.
The West Bengal setting is evoked in the tall, teetering house, with the silhouette of a man, and some washing, to domesticate it. The calming moon and stars, and the ditzy dragonflies, work against the sense of modernity suggested by the power lines slung across the cover, though bizarrely one pair of them is actually going behind the moon, which if truly intended is a neat touch of the uncanny. I have to say, there is nothing particularly to like about this cover. It's possible - from glancing at a couple of reviews - that it also mispresents what it contains.Which brings us to the Smith, the fourth book of hers (I think) to feature this format of white background, featured photograph and Helvetica typography. First we had William Eggleston photographs (for the paperback of The Accidental, then the hardback of The First Person and Other Stories), then, for Artful, an amusing black and film still of actress Aliki Vougiouklaki, perched like a pouty schoolgirl in an armchair in what looks like a library.Now, for How To Be Both, a photo of the wonderful Francoise Hardy (right) and Sylvie Vartan, a French-Bulgarian 'yé-yé singer' (you know what 'yé-yé' was, right?).I've got no idea how the photo fits the novel - whereas it's reasonably straightforward to read connections into at least two of the other photo covers - but it's strikingly good, a perfect contemporary version of retro. It actually looks, with that particular photo, and all that white space, rather like a 1970s travel book. As the first edition came out after the announcement of the Booker longlisting, it has that info printed at the bottom - surely there would have been a quote there otherwise? It's an important balancing element, though I can't help wishing it wasn't there - without it, the layout would be even more striking, even more retro.Looking at these photos - and especially this one, with these two women from that particular cultural moment - I also can't help thinking of The Smiths' record covers, with their cover stars of a very particular vintage, permanently hovering between kitsch and cult, cool and uncool, all chosen by Morrissey. From The Smiths to Ali Smith! To be fair, these people don't have quite the come-one-come-all inclusivity of Morrissey's selection (Charles Hawtrey et al) but it does make me wonder whether Smith has have any say in the look of her books.The other thing to mention in terms of the design of Smith's novel, is that it is split into two distinct narratives, but which one comes first in the copy you might buy in a bookshop is a matter of chance. The cover, however - I'm pretty sure - remains the same. An interestingly subtle twist of the whole 'random reading' thing that has sprung up in recent years. climaxing in Nanni Balestrini's Tristano, which, now I think of it, deserves a book blog of its own.In any case, I think I'd have to say that Smith's  is my favourite cover of the shortlist this year, run a close second by excellent Jacobson. But Smith's cover - all her recent covers, really, show a willingness to buck the trend (who would think of using Helvetica, these days!), be beautiful and simple, and mark out a brand for a writer that is flexible (some of these design elements extend to other of her covers) but recognisable. Bravo!