
	You'd think that shutting down the government would at least have saved us some dough. No government, no expenses, right? Wrong.
	Not only did the Tea Party thugs make us the laughingstock of the world, they also — in their attempts to save us from ourselves by finally getting medical insurance coverage — cost us big.
	Those 16 disgusting, dysfunctional, depressing, distressing days that those fools used up by prancing around the House playing my-stance-is-bigger-than-your stance took $24 billion out of our economy.
	What can you get for $24 billion these days? Hmmm. Let's see. They could have paid for Obamacare for every previously uninsured American — twice over.
	The insanity of the whole thing is that 21% of the national budget (about $732 billion) already goes to Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP, which provides health care to over 100 million elderly folks, children and disabled and low-income Americans. And we've all been paying for it — that's nearly a third of the population.
	STASI: TEA PARTY DRIVING GOVERNMENT INSANE
	The rest of us who have been covered by private health insurance are just so used to being drained dry with huge premiums, that we've become too beaten down to fight back.
	Come on! In truth, we've all been paying through the nose for coverage not just for our own families, but for everyone else's families as well. Wake up and smell the roasting folks.
	So what the hell are these Tea Party pols and their cohorts in the House fighting over really — not being raked over the coals any longer by insurance gougers? Are they all insane? Short answer: yes.
	Proof of the mass congressional insanity that has gripped the joint was even more evident this week than usual when that stenographer was hauled off the House floor and into the loony bin after grabbing the mic to rant about God, country and the Freemasons. Meantime, nobody called in the white coats when Ted Cruz went on his 21-hour mic rant about "Green Eggs and Ham."
	Truly, we now have maniacs and psychos where statesmen used to be. No longer are our elected officials concerned with what's best for the country — they're too concerned with what's best for their parties and for themselves.
	This isn't government, it's "The Sopranos."
	Bottom line: If those bums managed to compromise at the last minute, they could have managed to compromise at the first minute. Save us from our saviors.
	PHOTOS: GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN FURLOUGHS THOUSANDS OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
	MISTRESS MUSINGS
	Gennifer Flowers and Rielle Hunter both emerged from the swamp last week to publicize their terrifying attempts at writing.
	Hunter has re-released her "memoir," which had a title longer than the book: "In Hindsight, What Really Happened: The Revised Edition: John Edwards, Our Daughter and Me."
	Better title: "In Hindsight: Who Really Cares, Rielle?" During the same week, co-political sex groupie Gennifer Flowers gave an "exclusive" interview to the Daily Mail. Exclusive? Who did they beat out for that exclusive - Joey the blogger?
	Flowers was pushing her QA sex advice column, "Ask Mistress Gennifer." Anybody got any spare antibiotics? I feel an STD coming on.
	Hunter now says she was a naughty girl for sleeping with John Edwards, king of the coif. "I hurt people who didn't know Elizabeth, but loved her from afar." What?
	Flowers, however, is still unrepentant, and still a lunkhead. She dished dirty saying that Bill told her that Hillary had more women than he did, and that in 2005 he called her to hook up when he was in New Orleans, presumably while touring the hurricane-ravaged city.
	Question for Mistress Gennifer: Why would anyone take sex advice from the woman who didn't win the guy and remains a $2 side dish?
	PHOTOS: POLITICIANS WITH LOVE CHILDREN: RIELLE HUNTER STEPS OUT WITH JOHN EDWARDS' CHILD
	SHE'S JENNY FROM THE BLOCKHEADS
	Didn't I warn you that nudie Playboy Playmate/self-proclaimed child autism expert Jenny McCarthy would be as relatable on "The View," as a 10-dollar blow-up doll? Turns out she's flopping like a fish in a basket. Remember, this is the woman who wrote a book claiming that autism was caused by childhood vaccines — based on shoddy research done by a Brit doctor who's lost his license. Yeah. Good choice.
	RABBI ENFORCERS: THE K'VOD SQUAD
	There were several young ladies at shul, whose exes were quite mean and quite cruel, so they called in the k'vods, those tough rabbis with prods, and their exes were turned into mules.
	KEEP UP WITH THIS
	Giving new meaning to booty call, Kim Kardashian, who earlier this year ranted to her millions of followers on Twitter about her lack of privacy, sent out a selfie of her bodacious butt to her bazillions of followers on Instagram. Overheard 15 seconds later in the newsroom: "Damn! No wonder Kanye was in such a rush to get home from Greece!"
	THIS BISHOP BLINGS LIKE A BORGIA
	If you've ever remodeled a kitchen, you might agree with Germany's high holy roller, Bishop Franz-Peter Tebartz-van Elst that 42 million bucks of church money for his home renovations isn't all that extravagant.
	Unfortunately Pope Francis, who drives around in an old shebang with 90,000 miles on it, isn't buying it. He called the rich bish onto the red carpet to have him account for his $474,000 cupboards and $400,000 windows — not counting window treatments.
	If it turns out that Bishop Elsthat has to pay back the church for those home improvements, he can always sell indulgences like the Borgias used to do to pay for those little luxuries that some holy men need. Unlike Francis, this bishop doesn't do bourgeois.
	In other Pope news, Francis recently announced his decision to auction off his hog to feed the poor. No, not a Babe kind of hog, but a big ass motorcycle kind of hog. The Pope's pasta rocket is a Harley that he got from a grateful motorcycle club for blessing their bikes in St. Peter's Square. I swear to God.
	STASI: JUDY RAPFOGEL HAD TO KNOW HUSBAND WAS STASHING STOLEN CASH
	'WALK' WITH ME
	The best show on TV, "The Walking Dead," which is also the most-watched show on TV, still gets no respect even though this past Sunday night it, ah, walked away with 16.1 million viewers. And yet "The Walking Dead," in its fourth season has only had a handful of Emmy nominations, for makeup and special effects. Emmy voters would rather nominate horrible shows like "Girls," because they think they're edgy. Call them dead voters walking.
	PHOTOS: 15 WACKIEST 'WALKING DEAD' ZOMBIE MAKEOVERS