
	How ironic is it that the government shutdown — the ultimate in taxation without representation — was brought to us courtesy of the Tea Party?
	On Tuesday, flag bearer for the dopey, Rep. Michele Bachmann, apparently unaware that it was her side that closed the national parks when they closed the national government, showed up at the shuttered WWII Memorial in D.C. and proceeded to follow Reagan's cry to tear down that wall, by helping to remove the barriers.
	Then clutching a piece of yellow caution tape like it was the Declaration of Independence, Bachmann cried out like a crazed Al Sharpton, "They're not gonna lock you up, brother!" Brother? Really? Then she continued, "They're going to have to get through me first!"
	This, from the law-and-order congresswoman who voted for the shutdown.
	Same park/same issue. Congressman Randy Neugebauer got himself into the act, demeaning a park ranger who was doing her job. "The Park Service should be ashamed of themselves," he raved, perhaps believing that lone ranger was responsible for the shutdown of all the national parks.
	Instead of getting the cheers he thought were coming his way, a disgruntled veteran took after him saying it was because of the shutdown that he was now out of work.
	Has everyone gone Ted Cruz on us? In an attempt to find some sanity, I contacted the congresspeople who represent New Yorkers.
	Rep. Michael Grimm (R.-S.I.) was at first among the moderates. Now he's digging in.
	The former Marine and Secret Service agent told me, "You know what? We're worse off than we were before. And sure, there's enough blame to go around on all sides, but when the President calls a meeting and says, 'It's my way or the highway'? It's demeaning to the office and the country. Why hasn't the President brought in Vice President Biden, who knows the congress better than anyone, to negotiate? Because the president and Harry Reid have made a decision that the more it hurts, the worse the Republicans will look."
	Rep. Joe Crowley (D.-Queens) sees it differently, of course.
	"The Affordable Care Act is the law of the land," he said. "You don't shut down a government because you don't like a law! My constituents didn't stop paying taxes because they don't like that the government shut down.
	"They (Republicans) have tried to repeal the ACA 47 or 48 times. It's Einstein's definition of insanity. You keep doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. I've never seen such obstinance — and Boehner is enabling them."
	Finally, firebrand Rep. Peter King (R.-L.I.), who don't take no crap from nobody:
	"These people (Tea Party Republicans) are nothing but government terrorists!
	"Look, I'm against Obamacare, but putting 800,000 people out of work? These are Republicans who a month ago said they'd never shut down the government, but the Ted Cruz acolytes threatened that they'd bring down the house and they did! These guys are convinced they're winning. They're listening to their own echo chambers."
	There you have it: Three reasonable guys in the most unreasonable position we never thought we'd be in.
	RELATED: STASI: JUDY RAPFOGEL HAD TO KNOW HUSBAND WAS STASHING STOLEN CASH
	GENE-IES GET OUT OF THE BOTTLES
	So nebbishy Woody Allen never noticed that Ronan, his wildly handsome "biological" son, is a giant WASP version of Frank Sinatra?
	Maybe celebrities are too busy looking at themselves to see what's right in front of them.
	Take Maria Shriver. So she never questioned why her Guatemalan maid had an Austrian son? Wasn't she suspicious when the kid started yelling, "I'll be baack, Papa?"
	Prince Charles is another one. Stevie Wonder could see that Prince Harry — the first red-headed royal since Elizabeth the First-— looks like Diana's favorite horse guy. Maybe Charles thinks the red hair gene skips 200 generations.
	But even by those low standards, the Allen-Farrow bunch stands out for pure yuck.
	While they were together, multiple-mama-Mia was fooling around with her 71-year-old ex (whom she first married at 19!), Woody was schtupping Mia's 21-year-old daughter and allegedly molesting his 7-year-old adopted child.
	And nowadays? Woody and his daughter-wife Soon-Yi pal around with convicted child-sex perv, Jeffrey Epstein.
	Makes you want to put paper down on your seat before you even read about them!
	RELATED: STASI: GUNS ARE OUT OF CONTROL, BUT LITTLE HOPE
	'FAT' CHANCE
	Let them eat cake. And drink big soda. And swallow trans fats.
	Despite Lady Bird Bloomberg's attempt to get us to eat, drink and look like him (I'd rather look like Walter Hudson!), New Yorkers have responded to his insane dictates by eating through the pain and becoming fatter during his reign than ever before. Good for us!
	What we have listened to him about are bikes. And in a matter of weeks turned into Bejing.
	Between the ridiculous parking lanes in the middle of the street, the loony painted traffic lines that make Broadway look like a Chutes and Ladders board and the crazy bikers riding bike lanes in both directions, crossing the street has become a higher risk activity than picking up a drunken stranger at 3 a.m. on the subway.
	And we're all plus-sized. Nice legacy Mike!
	FIRE WITHIN
	Best trick of the week: The Unexplained Files, a loopy good show on Science Channel last week, featured a guy who tragically spontaneously combusts. The man's body naturally (naturally?) produces — yes! — nail polish remover! How can you beat that for enlightening entertainment? On the positive side, when fire-victim-man is not spontaneously combusting, he can give himself a pedicure.
	SOCK IT TO HIM!
	The deadest deadbeat of the dead-eyed Kardashians told The Wall Street Journal, yet, that he's no longer interested in the family that made him rich. "Literally, my job is to make socks. That's all I do." And we were worried about the government shutdown?
	RELATED: STASI: LIKE MOTHERS, LIKE DAUGHTERS
	DON'T BLOCK THE DOC
	Finally something the fools on the hill can agree on: TV.
	Last week the three political parties got everything they hoped for: They not only shut down the government, but they also managed to shut down two TV projects about Hillary Clinton. Fearing that both the planned CNN documentary and NBC mini-series would be pro-Hillary, Republicans said they'd bar both networks from the GOP debates.
	Fearing the shows would be anti-Hillary, the Dems — or the ones surrounding the Clintons at any rate — stonewalled producers. And the Tea Party? They were just happy to help close down anything that the rest of us want opened.