There was no contest as to my favourite book cover of 2012 - Peter Mendelsund's trompe l'oeil marvel for Ben Marcus's The Flame Alphabet. What better way to tempt people in to this strange, unclassifiable novel about a virus carried by the spoken language of children than these hyper-real paper cut flames, both carrying and devouring the three slips of text, like fortunes from fortune cookies?Well, now we have the follow-up, a set of stories from Marcus entitled Leaving The Sea, and it's equally delicious: vibrant, abstract and tactile, leaping off the object to grab your attention, at once childlike and darkly sophisticated. I asked Mendelsund to give an insight into the makings of this project, and he generously agreed - and was most generous in his answers.(Most gratifyingly, for a layperson like me, the American Mendelsund is no trained graphic designer, but rather a concert pianist who slipped into this second career very much by accident - you have to hope he finds time to play still in his current roles as the Associate Art Director of Alfred A. Knopf Books and Art Director of Pantheon Books and Vertical Press...)First, I asked him about the first book, and if Marcus had liked it.Well, I'm glad he liked it. A lot of people liked it - but did that make it harder to come up with something for the book of stories? Was there added pressure?I asked about the paper cut process - it didn't seem like something I'd noticed elsewhere in his work (which you can see on his website)Finally, I asked if Mendelsund had a favourite design book - in part as a nod to his own book which is coming out this August, What We See When We Read. (In fact, Mendelsund has TWO books coming out that day, from different publishers: one a monograph on his design work, called Covers, the other WWSWWR. On his site he describes them thus: "WWSWWR describes what I see when I read; Cover shows what I saw when I read." I, for one, cannot wait.But, anyway, in response to my request for a design book tip, this is what Mendelsund said:Which is maddening, from a journalist's point of view, but also rather endearing, from a book lover's. It is heartening that some of the best covers in the business are coming from someone unschooled and responsive, rather than deeply immersed in the history and traditions of his trade. (I haven't posted any pics of his other great covers here precisely in order to get you to click on his site and see them there, often with further fascinating elucidation.)