One of the great complaints of writers and agents about the current febrile state of the publishing industry is the Death of the Midlist, meaning that range of authors, often in mid-career, whose books traditionally sold well-ish, but not spectacularly. That may have been fine in the grand old days of publishing yore, but in the current climate of shrinking margins and burgeoning hype they are finding themselves increasingly abandoned by the major publishing houses. If you can't be an exciting new voice, and you're not regularly making it onto the prize shortlists - seems to be the general view - then you're dead in the water.This is the situation Fiction Uncovered sets out to tackle. It's a promotional initiative supported by the Arts Council and funded by the National Lottery that seeks to take eight such undersung British writers and put them in the kind of eye-catching retail dump-bins at the front of bookstores that they haven't previously graced. (Foyles, Waterstones, WH Smiths and the iBookstore have all signed up to join in the drive - and if that sounds like a usual rota of big fish, then be cheered by the fact that there is a fair percentage of independent publishers on the list.)Yesterday saw the unveiling of the chosen eight (it's hoped to be an annual promotion) and I'm glad - or sad - to say that they're largely new names to me. Of the eight writers, I'd read only one of them before, the marvellous Tim Pears, whose Disupted Land (link is to the Independent review) is a great emotional and humorous take on the nerve-shredding Christmas family get-together, seen through the eyes of an immensely likeable 13-year-old boy. (Check out Pears's Landed for a more sinister twist on family dynamics.)The other seven are: Forgetting Zöe by Ray Robinson, The Water Theatre by Lindsay Clarke, The London Satyr by Robert Edric, Nimrod's Shadow by Chris Paling, Proof of Love by Catherine Hall, The English German Girl by Jake Wallis Simons and Night Waking by Sarah Moss. As the links - to Independent reviews - show, these are books that don't even always get coverage in the press , which in a way is as it should be. Fiction Uncovered would be pointless if you knew about all the choices already.Proving that it's the Midlist that is being given the special treatment, none of these are first novels. Chris Paling has nine novels to his name, and Robert Edric over 20. If Lindsay Clarke's name is familiar, it might be because of 'The Chymical Wedding', which won the Whitbread (now Costa) Award for Fiction in 1989 - though his subsequent books didn't seem able to copy its success. Now perhaps is the time.If Fiction Uncovered works, it is because it fills that shiny retail dump-bin in a store near you with books that somehow don't look like they belong there. They are books that don't usually make it into the window or onto the 'front table', and if they occasionally get some prominence on the 'Staff Recommends' shelves, then they are overshadowed by more predictable classics and cult favourites on either side.No prizes, no winner. Just a different way of prodding readers to try something new. Go to the Fiction Uncovered website to find out more, including sample chapters, or download the free App. The proof will be in the puddings - the eight big puddings of the hoped-for boost to the authors' sales, and the many more little puddings of each reader's appreciation of the books themselves.