
	It's disgraceful enough to embezzle from your employer, but if your employer is a charity, well that's not just a shande, but a downright umkoved!
	William Rapfogel, chief executive officer and now alleged chief executive thief of the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, stands accused of stealing $5 million from the charity in a kickback scheme. And his wife, Judy Rapfogel, chief of staff to Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, adamantly denies she knew anything about it.
	Even the Rapfogels' close friends and political allies are sure that it isn't true, or at least that it can't be true.
	MORE STASI: GUNS ARE OUT CONTROL BUT THERE'S LITTLE HOPE
	OK, I can understand how their friends and allies might not know that he had nearly half a million in loose change in his closet, but his wife? Not that other powerful wives haven't suddenly turned all little woman when their husbands got nailed, as Jeanine Pirro did way back when, but still.
	Claiming you didn't look at your joint tax returns when your husband always made big bucks anyway is one thing — but not noticing a giant bundle of money in the bedroom closet?
	Either the Rapfogels have a closet the size of Lady Gaga's, or Judy Rapfogel, who's seen it all in Albany, at least had to have noticed the stashed cash in the closet and wondered, "What the hell?"
	"Honey, is that a bundle of cash in your pants or are you just happy to see me?"
	Worse, while spouses may not know all that their partners are up to (if they did, then the up-to 60% of cheating spouses wouldn't get away with claiming they're working late), not asking about money given to your kids? That's something else altogether.
	William Rapfogel allegedly gave $100,000 to his son. Every wife and mother knows when, why and how much whenever a spouse gives money to the kids because it is — in any decent marriage anyway — a big deal. Sorry, but 100 Gs isn't exactly chopped liver — it's real dough.
	In the real world, it's easier for husbands to hide a mistress than it is to hide cash to the kids.
	Did the Rapfogels also not discuss work with each other, as she claims, despite each having high-profile gigs that often overlapped, especially when the council got grants from the state on Silver's watch? She had to know about his finances just from that alone.
	MORE STASI: DOPEY MOMS DINA LOHAN AND KRIS JENNER EMULATING DAUGHTERS
	That scenario is unlikely. But I suppose even Michelle Obama gets tired of hearing about her husband's long day at the (Oval) office, so there's a tiny chance she's telling the truth. Nah.
	Even though Judy's not talking to anyone except her lawyer, she had to know what a ganef the guy was when he got the boot from the charity in August.
	He admitted his guilt, stating, "I pray that my family and friends and all who care about Met Council can find it in their heart to forgive me for my actions. I will do everything possible to make amends."
	Really? He should have asked that they pray for the poverty-stricken Jews that didn't get the money he embezzled. I doubt many people will waste their prayers on that khazer.
	Amen to that.
	THE MANY FACES OF HILLARY
	I want a blood clot. And I want one now! Did you notice how Hillary Clinton, fully recovered from her December concussion and January blood clot, looked 25 years younger on the cover of New York mag than she did on their cover seven years ago? And all she was suffering from back then was that big pain in the butt, the presumptive, future, undeclared co-President, Bill.
	Either New York mag overworked Photoshop, Clinton had some, er, work done, or the blood clot/concussion/diet combo not only eliminates fat, but also the visible signs of aging.
	Meantime, Bill, who can't keep his mouth shut any more than was once said about his zipper, appeared on "CBS This Morning" last week. When Charlie Rose asked an incredibly sexist question about whether Hillary would rather be the President or a grandmother, Bill's incredible sexist answer was, "If you asked her, I think she'd say, 'Grandmother,' but I've found it best not to discuss that issue." He said that while discussing that issue.
	ANOTHER GENERAL ASSEMBLY
	With the Nairobi terrorist attack still going on, world leaders gathered at the UN for the annual General Assembly gab fest. No, they didn't figure out how to stop terrorism, although the phone call between President Obama and Iranian president Hassan Rouhani, followed by Rouhani's tweeting frenzy at the end of a week of posturing and snubbing, was pretty spectacular.
	As for the rest of the freeloaders who gathered to talk about world hunger and global warming? They pollute our air and clog our streets with motorcades that chauffeur them to ridiculously expensive restaurants while their people back home are, in many cases, starving. Let them eat brioche.
	Keeping these high-living diplo-bums in the style to which they have become accustomed costs American taxpayers — are you ready? — something like $8 billion a year!
	It costs from $5 million to $7 million to protect these privileged few for the week they're in town. But our billionaire mayor says it's great for the city and wonderful for the hospitality business. Thankfully, he also threatened last week not to give any more press conferences.
	PAC-MANS
	
	An Alabama rich guy and a D.C. lawyer are bringing suit against New York City because their PAC can't give as much money as they want to Joe Lhota's mayoral campaign. What? Shameless Lhota is all-in, of course, saying the campaign finance law restricts freedom of spend, er, speech. Out-of-towners just can't spend enough money telling us New Yorkers how to vote.
	RADICAL MUSLIM MAKEOVER
	The most-wanted woman in the world is suspected Kenyan mall terrorist Samantha Lewthwaite, aka the "White Widow." The Widow used to look like a girl without a date for the prom, and then she went all radical killer and — yes — got a glam makeover! Clearly she wants to become the next iconic-yet-dead image a la Che.
	I vote for just dead.
	BOOKER'S LEATHER PALACE
	Thank God Newark Mayor/senatorial candidate Cory Booker will no longer have to worry that rumors about his sexuality will keep him from starring in Barilla pasta commercials or PETA ads.
	Cory was just outed for exchanging tweets with Lynsie Lee, a stripper from a vegan strip joint. No, not as in strip steak, but as in nonmeat eating, nonfeather-leather-wearing strippers. (Isn't a stripper without a boa like a ballerina without a tutu?)
	Question: Sure, Cory tweets, but will he twerk?
	I'M THINKING PINK
	October is Breast Cancer Awareness Month, and this Wednesday, go punk-pink at Miano-Viel Salon on E. 52nd St.
	For every $10 breast cancer donation, a well-known stylist will weave a pink streak into your hair. Last week, SHARE's breast cancer event, which featured 26 foodie-favorite chefs and 26 sous chefs (yes, that was me shredding veggies), was a huge winner.
	The chefs cooked for 600 people and brought in nearly half a million! Now, go schedule your mammogram. Be aware. Be very aware!
	lstasi@nydailynews.com
	@LindaStasi