 When it's a head, is the obvious answer. This new issue of American literary journal McSweeney's comes in the form of some sixteen pamphlets and booklets contained in a square cube, which is decorated with the features an offensively florid human face the like of which we haven't seen since the cover of In The Court of the Crimson King. It is, obviously, a ludicrous design for a magazine - are your bookshelves deep enough to hold it, for a start? - but for McSweeney's it's hardly unprecedented. The magazine and imprint is well-known for being the brainchild of one-time literary wunderkind, now established literary all-rounder Dave Eggers, but perhaps less well-known is the fact that Eggers worked as a graphic designer before turning to writing. As such the look of things has always been high on his agenda.Each issue of his journal (after the first few) is sui generis, determinedly so: most look nothing like those that came before. Some look like nothing else that ever took the name of magazine, or book. Here, then, to celebrate its 13 years of design beauty, obliquity and occasional downright oddity are ten of the best- and worst-dressed McSweeney's. Issue 4 The first three editions of Eggers' magazine were plain in the extreme - printed black and white only, inside and out, with dainty little ornamental headpieces for each story, though Issue 3 had some fold-out colour plates. Issue 4, though, shows a major step-change in ambition. It is a cardboard box (a rather flimsy one by comparison to 36's robust crate) holding 14 pamphlets, most of which contain individual stories or essays. Even a characteristically brief Lydia Davis story, the one-paragraph, 200-word A Mown Lawn, luxuriates in its own 12-page booklet. Another highlight is the illustrated essay on the paperback covers, good and bad, of Lolita. (This issue has been republished and is currently available, along with some but not all of these selections, at the McSweeney's online store .) Issue 6 The Art Issue. A sober and tidy hardback that works as the best kind of treasure trove of art, fiction and essay (compare, if you will, to the overly whimsical cigar box, Issue 19, below). Flicking through, you will see reproductions of odd, found postcards, some beautiful drawings of Nova Scotia pebbles, and, at the more industrial end of the spectrum, 'drawings by truck' from artist Dave Ford, who laid paper on the floor of an empty haulage truck and suspended pencils over it, so they would mark the paper at random as he drove across the country. There is also a CD by They Might Be Giants. Issue 16 Comes with a comb. And an intriguing story by Robert Coover written on 13 large playing cards, to be dealt out at random, plus some other worthwhile stuff, all held in an amusing fold-out design. But, really, a comb.     Issue 17 The comb, however, looks like a masterstroke of verve and profundity when compared to Issue 17. Whoever had the bright idea of presenting a respectable literary journal as a bundle of direct mail bumf deserves to be taken outside and shot.Its unwieldy bulk means it doesn't fit on the shelf alongside its siblings, but while this isn't the only McSweeney's to be too tall for your average shelf, the others go down to a lower, taller shelf. 17's gone into a high, inaccessible cupboard, where I am happy to let it sit.It has a couple of books with proper stories in it, but the direct mail letters and 'humorous' catalogues - of clothing for more than person to wear at once, and Tyrolian Harvest goods - leave a genuinely bad taste in the mouth, that trees suffered to bring us such thin matter. Issue 19 After a breather for the thankfully normal Issue 18, Issue 19 comes in a cigar box, but, judging by the lurid greens and blues printed on it, I wouldn't recommend smoking anything that came from inside it. Instead of cigars McSweeeney's offers a collection of arcane period reproductions, as a well-travelled person might whimsically store in such a box, to show their grandchildren.They are largely state information pamphlets - a miniature Department of Defense Guide to the Middle East (1957), for example, and, from Britain, Some Things You Should Know If War Should Come (1939). A diversion, certainly, but only a novella by TC Boyle, in the paperback hidden at the bottom, gives this issue any real heft. Issue 22 Somewhat recherché as far as contents go, but then the journal's willingness to go out on a limb content-wise, as well as formally, is unarguably bold, and refreshing. The three small books that make up this issue contain: a collection of experimental work by Oulipo (the French Ourvroir de Litterature Potentielle, which applies mathematical formulae to writing); a collection of stories based on unused premises taken from the notebooks of F Scott Fitzgerald; and a collection of 'poetry chains', with short selections from various poets, who then went on to choose more poets, and so on. What makes it special, however, is that the three individual books sit inside an outer cover, to which they adhere by... the power of magnets. Pull them out, slip them back in. How neat! Issue 24 An issue of two halves (half short stories, and half a rather disappointing special on that most serious of wacky writers, Donald Barthelme), this came in an intriguing Z-bend format: essentially two small-ish hardback books sharing one back cover, but back-to-front. Quite hard to describe, but lovely to hold.   Issue 27 Like Issue 6, this shows just the right amount of design ingenuity, and a distinct lack of zaniness for its own sake. Issue 27 is three paperbacks held in a box sleeve, which is itself illustrated and die-cut (the windows in the tower blocks). The three paperbacks comprise: excerpts from the sketchbooks of Art Spiegelman; work from an exhibition of text-image-humour art that could best be described to a British audience as David Shrigley-esque; and a standard selection of six short stories, authors ranging from the unknown to Stephen King.    Issue 28 An issue themed around the fable. Fine, but to publish each of the eight short texts in its own cutesy-pie miniature book - albeit that their illustrations are far from cute - which then slot together into a lid-less presentation box, like posh, paper-wrapped chocolates, held in place with elasticated strips, would seem to do no one any favours.      Issue 33 Is a newspaper, The San Francisco Panorama. A great big walloping newspaper, complete with 112-page broadsheet, a comics pull-out (featuring, naturally for McSweeney's, Chris Ware and Art Spiegelman) and  a books section that, frankly, puts even McSweeney's own in-house books periodical, The Believer, to shame.