
	Every time there's another mass shooting, all the usual windbags get face-time on TV, and appear in newspapers and blogs spitting out quotes like bad wine. These experts are there to tell us how and why it happened, and condemn everyone who let it happen.
	Thing is, if these experts know so much, and can identify all that's wrong with the system, why aren't they out there preventing it?
	After all it shouldn't be that difficult to spot a violent crazy person — right? Even the construction workers whose tires were shot out by D.C. mass murderer, Aaron Alexis, knew that he was too crazy to confront. They called the cops instead.
	Despite that, legally Alexis wasn't crazy enough to have been denied a concealed weapons permit, buy guns, or to have his security clearance pulled.
	The horrible truth is that mass murders are a fact of life in the U.S. It's not new. In the 1980s so many postal workers went on shooting rampages that we even had to invent a phrase to identify it, "going postal."
	So far this year, there have been 16 mass murders resulting in 78 deaths, while last year there were 16 mass shootings resulting in 88 deaths.
	Despite all the high-toned rhetoric, getting guns out of people's hands is probably an impossible task — and one which many Americans don't want. The FBI estimates that Americans own 200 million guns, (about 47% of all households) That's 10.3 firearms deaths per 100,000 people.
	Americans would rather put up with murder than lose their right to arm up. And lawmakers agree. Since Newtown, 27 states eased gun control regulations, and seven now allow guns in schools.
	In fact, just a couple of weeks ago a special recall election was held in Colorado — home of the Columbine and Aurora deadly mass shootings — to oust two lawmakers who had backed stricter gun control legislation. One good reason to not live — and die there.
	The White House is helpless to help. In fact, in January, after the Newtown tragedy, the president tasked the CDC with the job of tallying gun violence in recent years. Turns out that the report proved the opposite of what he wanted: Most adult gun deaths are the result of suicide — not murder. Apparently suicide is not considered a violent gun act.
	Too bad the lunatics who kill en masse and become infamous for it aren't part of those suicide statistics before they enter schools, offices, cafeterias, malls and movie theaters and turn their guns on the innocent.
	Mayor Bloomberg blames the system. He said that 40% of guns sold at guns shows and through the Internet are done without background checks. While that is most likely still true, Bloomberg was citing a 1997 study — a time when about six people had Internet Access. Ok, it was 22% of the population, as opposed to 98% today, but still.
	That being said, it's indisputable that the Internet has made it easier to arm up than ever before. In fact, some sites make it not just easy but almost polite to buy without restriction. Take this quaint disclaimer on Armslist.com, a site with thousands of person-to-person buyers and sellers who don't have to deal with pesky regulations. The site asks users to agree, before buying assault weapons that they will "take responsibility for my actions whilst using Armslist.com." Whilst? Is this olde English for "packing heat?"
	Meantime, buying a cuppa joe whilst carrying a gun in Starbucks is no longer smiled upon.
	Last week CEO Howard Schultz issued an open letter saying he'd prefer that customers not pack, but that (get this!) "a ban would potentially require our partners to confront armed customers, and that is not a role I am comfortable asking Starbucks partners to take on." He's not comfortable with caramel latte-armed baristas tossing out customers armed with AR-15 assault rifles? Now that's what you call a huge job incentive!
	THEY'RE ALL NUTS
	Last week Dennis Rodman took time out from his busy schedule of shilling for Kim Jong-Un to shill instead for pistachio nuts.
	In the bizarre commercial, Rodman, sporting green hair and looking like a scary St. Patrick's day reveler, sits with a Kim Jong-Un impersonator talking world peace — until the fake Kim nukes the real Rodman.
	The mad b-baller's commercial would be a lot funnier if the murderous dictator with the worst despot 'do since Hitler didn't really have nukes, and oh yes, if he hadn't reportedly ordered the execution by firing squad of his ex-girlfriend, pop star Hyon Song-wol, and 11 other performers last month.
	That being said, the big question remains: Why is President Obama so focused on President Assad while the killer kid of North Korea continues his father's policies of executing his own people, supposedly engaging in underground nuclear testing, and black marketeering of drugs and weapons, while millions starve?
	Smaller question: At what point will Lil Kim, aka, the Supreme Leader, tire of Rodman, and nuke him for real?
	ARE WE ALL GETTING X-RAYED?
	Is "Ray Donovan" suiting up to jump the shark or, in this case, jump the priest? Clerical torture and murder is one thing, but isn't it time that the psycho Donovan brothers killed off Ray's highly annoying wife Abby? She's so irritating that Ray would rather handcuff his other lover to the sink than stay home and listen to Abby whine.
	"I'm ya wyfe Raay." "Whay're ya goin' Raay?" "Whaddaya doin' Raay?" "I know what ya doin' Raay." "Lookit me Raay." "Ya wrong about ya fahtha, Raay." "I'm ya' wyfe Raay." Please, just shut up! We'ya auwdeeince, Mrs. Raay.
	AUTHOR PLAGIARIZES HIS OWN BOOK
	Nelson DeMille, who shows up on best seller lists the way I show up on bad credit reports, wrote a book back in 1974 titled "The Quest."
	This week he released his latest novel, titled, yes, "The Quest." Couldn't he come up with a new name — or did he plagiarize his own book?
	"At my age, I forgot that I wrote it," he said. "But seriously, it's a complete rewrite of an earlier book I wrote as a novice author."
	What about his fans who already read it in its first incarnation?
	"You mean the 500 people who actually read the paperback original in 1974? Most of them are dead by now, so I wanted to bring the book back for a larger and still living audience." Good selling point!
	The thriller debuts this week at the top of the NYT bestseller list. Me? I'm still riding the top of the bad credit lists. But I have dreams — big dreams — dammit!
	HERE SHE IS, ALL YOU HATERS
	What do you call a woman who was born in Syracuse, lived in Oklahoma and grew up in Michigan? Sorry but "filthy Arab terrorist," "Miss 7-11" and "Miss al Qaeda," as online idiots have suggested are not the correct or even the politically correct answers. What you call her is Miss America.
	JOB MARKET FOR LOSERS
	With the mayoral races over, you've got to wonder what the hell the losers are going to do now.
	John Catsimatidis is already up to his ears in corn and more green than we'll ever see in a lifetime, so he's taken care of.
	But what about Christine Quinn, John Liu and Anthony Weiner?
	They are all professional politicians, and unlike any other job in the world, they just can't apply for a position in their same fields elsewhere — or anywhere else for that matter. I mean, where would you even find a job in a regular office where you'd have to constantly beg everyone for money so you could run for the job again in a few years?
	BLOOMY'S LOST IT?
	Let's call it a tale of one city. Mayor Bloominaire declared on Friday that "If we could get every billionaire in the world to move here, that would be a godsend." Yeah, like we need 1,226 more people here riding rent-a-bikes, lining up for cronuts, and crowding the subways. Is Bloomy out of touch or just out of his mind?