Power supplies covering half of India's 1.2bn population have been cut for  up to eleven hours today in the third example since Sunday night of how the  country's under-invested and badly managed infrastructure is creaking  its way to near-collapse.Ten states in the north have been  without power because the national grid failed after it was overloaded  by two or three states drawing down more their authorised share of  electricity. This is said to be the world's biggest ever power collapse  and followed another massive shutdown on Sunday night when power was cut  to a quarter of the population after the state of Uttar Pradesh  exceeded its quota.Also on Sunday night, a fire on an express train killed 32 people. That followed two train collisions and 29 deaths in May.These  shutdowns and disasters stem from a chronic failure by the current  government, which has been in power since 2004, to tackle infrastructure  problems that have been building for many years. The failure stems from  Manmohan Singh, the prime minister, who has been restricted in what he  can do on economic reforms both by Sonia Gandhi, the leader of the  Congress Party and the governing coalition, and by coalition partners.Power minister promoted!
Then there are inefficient and non-performing ministers in charge of key sectors.One  of them is Sushilkumar Shinde who has been responsible for  electricity supplies as Minister of Power for three years and this  evening has been promoted in a cabinet reshuffle to be Minister of Home  Affairs, despite the failures of the past two days (see last para  below).He does not bear total responsibility for the grid  failures because power supplies are managed by individual states . Power generation has also been seriously hit by coal shortages from badly-run government-owned Coal  India that have led to some power stations being shut down, plus corrupt coal mining licences. The basic failure to do more to  address the problems is however down to him.Then  there is Mukul Roy, the Minister for Railways, who spends most of his  time working on party affairs in West Bengal, where his regional  Trinamool Party is based, and rarely visiting his railways ministry  office in Delhi. He was appointed in March to replace Dinesh Trivedi,  another Trinamool member, who lost his job after he introduced a  reformist railway budget that displeased his party boss, Mamata  Banerjee. Trivedi's plans included a major safety upgrade financed by  across-the-board fare increases which have not gone ahead because  Banerjee did not approve them.Such is life with coalition  politics - regional party bosses are more interested in their regional  interests than the country as a whole, and the prime minister can  neither control what the minister does, nor dismiss him. The government  has caught what is dubbed "policy paralysis" and economic growth has slumped from almost 10% to near 6%.Earlier this year, I wrote an article on this blog arguing  that India could no longer survive as it has in the past by simply  turning muddle and adversity into some form of (often inadequate)  success and assuming that everything will eventually function  adequately. Reliance on what is known as jugaad - making do and  innovating with what's available rather than looking for new levels of  performance and excellence - is a brilliant solution for a deprived and  under-developed society, but it is not enough in a country in India's  state of development (even though it is now, rather belatedly, being  picked up by management writers as a new panacea).In  the past few years, India's pace of events has overwhelmed this  approach, making it impossible for the country to cope with basic  services, projects and development. This was graphically demonstrated  with chaotic and corrupt preparations for the 2010 Commonwealth Games,  but there are many other examples. The most evident involve public  sector infrastructure, ranging from annual monsoon flooding that  cripples Mumbai and chaotically inadequate services in Delhi's satellite  city of Gurgaon, to unhealthy water supplies, annual fog delays at  Delhi airport, and building collapses - and now to the record power  shutdowns and rail disaster in the past two days.Corruption plays  a part in each one of these examples, most often with contracts and  licences being awarded to undeserving companies that then perform badly.  This prevents central and state governments adequately addressing key  issues, and leads both the public and private sector to assume that they  can buy their way into contracts and out of problems.On top of  that are social issues, including the use of agricultural land for  industry which slows the development of both power and mining projects,  that are becoming more crucial and potentially disruptive as the poor  see the well off benefiting from India's economic growth.Today's  power cuts stretched across India from the borders with Pakistan in the  west and Bangladesh and China in the east, and southwards from the  Himalayas to the middle of India. That area has a population of over 600m, but many do not have any access to electricity so the actual number of people whose homes lost power could be nearer 350m. Trains were stranded. Delhi's highly  efficient Metro railway closed, and roads blocked with traffic light  failures. Most businesses and many private homes have (expensive)  generating sets that supply stand-by power, but these failed to keep the  country running.Shinde blamed the system collapse on some states drawing more than their  share of electricity from the overstretched grid, and said he had  "given instructions that whoever overdraws power will be punished."  Stealing power, whether it is a next-door neighbour's or an overhead  power line is standard practice in India. It is hardly surprising  therefore that some states have been taking more than their allotted  share from the grid at a time when a serious draught is worsening power  shortages. Threatening punishment is a typical official reaction when  something goes wrong - the railway minister promised an inquiry into the  fire, similarly presuming that would silence critics and enable him to  return to his party affairs. Cabinet reshuffle Tonight's cabinet reshuffle has been  triggered by Pranab Mukherjee, the Finance Minister, becoming India's  President. Palaniappan Chidambaram, the highly efficient but abrasive  Home Minister, has taken his place, returning to a post he held from  2004 to 2008. Chidambaram has strengthened the home ministry and the  nation's security since 2008 and it is unlikely that Shinde, who is  favoured because he is trusted by Sonia Gandhi, will perform as  effectively.Shinde has been succeeded as Power Minister by  Corporate Affairs Minister Veerappa Moily, who for the time being will  do both jobs - and presumably will not be able to provide the  single-minded focus that is desperately needed by the power industry.For an updated version of this article with more detail, go to John Elliott's Riding the Elephant blog - http://wp.me/pieST-1Ku