YOU'VE seen the commercial  now live the nightmare. Some Long Islanders are more than a little crazed with the commercial in which the school bus makes an unannounced stop at Burger King. 
  It's not that these parents don't like a good laugh. It's just that Nassau County police said their children's school bus driver, Chris Stoody, took their 5 to 8-year-olds for an unannounced pit stop in October at McDonald's, bought them shakes, then threatened to cut off their genitals if they told. 
  Not exactly your basic happy meal trip. 
  The cops didn't get the joke either, and Stoody, who lives in Hicksville, was charged in December with endangering the welfare of a minor. I grew up there and knew my share of strange characters. Maybe they put something in the water. If you remember, Robert Izzo, a school bus driver charged in 1989 with molesting kindergartners and boy scouts, lived in Hicksville. 
  "Stoody called them out by name," said Jane Somers, whose 5-year-old son was also on the bus, "and as I understand it, said he'd cut them up in little pieces, one by one, in the order he called out." 
  "He held up surgical scissors and threatened to cut off their private parts," charged Harriet McDonough, a Garden City parent who reported Stoody first. "It's an outrage that We Transport, the Plainview, L.I., company picked by the school districts to transport these kids to school, hires these guys without all that much screening. You just hand your kids over and off they go." 
  We Transport, under contract to the West Hempstead, Malverne, Lynbrook and Garden City school districts, did not return repeated calls about the parents' allegations. The children attend a private school and are transported by the company.  
  "The bus companies do a background and fingerprint check," said Detective Gilma Simeon of the Nassau County sex crimes unit. "Look, he just should not be around kids. Right off he strikes you as an odd personality." 
  McDonough said her "5-year-old was catatonic before this whole thing blew up."  
  She said Stoody showed up at her door one day with her son in tow. "He'd left the other children outside in the bus. He said my son touched him on the head. I suggested that we all sit down with his supervisor to discuss this  especially the fact that he left the kids outside on the bus. Then, he said, 'Okay, never mind, I won't write him up this time.' Write him up?" 
  When Stoody left, McDonough said, her son burst into tears. "Mommy, you saved me," he cried before telling about the bizarre fast food run. Then she got on the phone with the other parents. 
   "At the very least we figured that he was violating the law by taking the kids off the route. As it turned out, it's not against the law to go off the route," said McDonough. 
  Stoody's lawyer, Dominick Milone, said he's innocent. "Chris is a very caring young man," said Milone. "He's an EMT ambulance volunteer, certified in defibrillation. He spent the whole night at the Avianca crash"  in Cove Neck in 1990  "as a volunteer. 
  "I don't know whether it got out of hand with all the kids talking. You know kids don't like to be disciplined. They were all nice children, but when one child says something then the others can repeat it. 
  "As I understand it, when Chris opened up his trauma bag to take out a radio, the kids asked him what was in the bag. So he showed them and told them what each thing was for. He tells me the McDonald's incident and the threat just never happened." 
  The parents complained to West Hempstead school officials, and within hours Stoody was history. The parents said he was fired; his lawyer believes he quit. 
  But McDonough is still worried. "My problem is that my son is still having nightmares. He thinks that Chris is going to come and kill him," she said. "If we don't have the guts to put our children on the stand, and face him, he'll get off and could get another bus job. There's no data base that says 'good guy-bad  guy.' " 
  Have it your way, as they say in the commercials, but sordid incidents involving school bus drivers seem to be increasing. It's not okay for school bus drivers to veer off the routes  under any circumstances, especially for milk shake breaks. Besides, one of the kids on Stoody's bus was lactose-intolerant. 
  It's 3 p.m. Do you know where your children are?