It  had to happen. India's slide in the past two or three years from a  self-perceived emerging economic super-power to its current crisis of  appalling government performance, sliding economic statistics, and  almost daily political crises has today led to a damning international  verdict with ratings agency Standard  Poor's deciding to cut India's outlook to  negative from stable. SP cites India's large fiscal deficit and  expectations of only modest progress on reforms, given political  constraints and falls in both the stock market and the value of the  rupeeThis reflects  the basic problem of a lack of firm government and the international  uncertainty that creates. Some economists however thought SP's  action was premature, and Moody's rating agency said it expected growth to be sustained, supported by "strong savings and investment rates".The SP move puts at risk India's long-term rating of BBB-, which is  the lowest investment grade. It could hit the inflow of funds and thus  the balance of payments if economic growth slips below current forecasts  of around 7%. "The negative outlook signals at least a one-in-three  likelihood of the downgrade of India's sovereign ratings within the next  24 months. A downgrade is likely if the country's economic growth  prospects dim, its external position deteriorates, its political climate  worsens, or fiscal reforms slow," SP credit analyst Takahira Ogawa  said in a statement.Yet  Pranab Mukherjee, the finance minister (pictured above), responded blandly saying,  "There is no need for being panicky." The situation "may be difficult,  but we will be surely be able to overcome". That chimes with the  reaction of Manmohan Singh, the prime minister (reported here last week),  when he dismissed public warnings on the economy and reforms from some  of his closest friends and economic advisers. He said they were  "difficulties" that would be "overcome".Mukherjee's  reaction shows he and his colleagues seem to assume that India is cushioned from outside  pressures as it was before the 1991 economic reforms, which of course is  wrong now it relies on inward direct and institutional investment.  Mukherjee is basing his optimism partly on hope that three bills on  pension funds, insurance, and banking will soon be passed by parliament,  but it will be a miracle if that happens.The government has had a series of major and minor crises that neither  the Congress Party, led by its president Sonia Gandhi, who heads the  unruly government coalition, nor the government itself headed by the  prime minister, seems to know how to stem let alone solve.Foreign  investors looking into India see a government that lacks coherence and  leadership in planning and implementing policies and reforms that range  from foreign direct investment to land acquisition. Yes at the same  time, the government has the gall to snub foreign investors by  threatening multi-million/billion dollar retrospective tax demands on  major companies such as Vodafone.When this  government was first elected, it was said to have a "dream team" of  economic managers - the prime minister, finance minister Palaniappan  Chidambaram, and Montek Singh Ahluwalia running the planning commission.  None of these men however had either the contacts or string-pulling  know-how to make things happen, and they were quickly constrained by the  populist reform-wariness of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul, her son and heir  apparent, plus their coalition partners.Now the prime minister,  at 79, seems tired of the "difficulties", Chidambaram is running the  home ministry, and Ahluwalia's impact slips the weaker the prime  minister becomes. Chidambaram's successor at finance, Pranab Mukherjee, a  veteran and agile political problem-solver, seems to be losing his  touch - never a reformer, he is leading the tax attack on foreign  investors and is creating levels of uncertainty and insecurity that no  modern economy could survive.Alongside that, Sonia Gandhi has  long-term health problems (though it is not known how serious they are),  and Rahul has lost his credibility with disastrous Uttar Pradesh state  assembly election results last month and with little else to show for  eight years in politics.Numerous  other ministers and party leaders are being felled or weakened by a  series of catastrophes. Yesterday  came inexplicable reports that four ministers had offered to resign  their posts to help rebuild the Congress Party for the next general  election due in 2014. Those involved denied they had done so, but the  widely reported news surely shows skewed priorities. Isn't it more  important to run ministries well and boost the government's performance  before the election than to move to the party's offices - or have the  ministers decided it is best to jump from a foundering ship and hope  their future looks brighter in a party lifeboat?It is not only  the economy and policy making that is in trouble. India's once proud  army is being weakened, not only by corruption scandals that block big  defence orders, but by a series of internal rows that range from the army chief going to court over when he should retire and a court case (dismissed this week) against the choice of the next army chief.Today the government faces more trouble with headlines on a revealing footnote to history. This is the 25th anniversary of the Bofors gun deal scandal that  rocked the then Congress government run by Sonia Gandhi's late husband,  Rajiv, and still reverberates through Indian politics and defence  ministry decision-making.Sten Lindstrom, a former Swedish police  chief who was heading inquiries into Bofors in 1987, today has  identified himself as the source for the Indian end of the story. In a  current interview with the journalist who was then the recipient of his  leak, he said there was "no evidence" that Rajiv Gandhi received a  bribe, but that there was "a political payment". The  damning revelation is that Rajiv Gandhi "watched the massive cover-up  in India and Sweden and did nothing," says Lindstrom.And so it is today. The guilty have escaped  numerous corruption scandals, most recently on the Commonwealth Games,  defence deals, and mining licences. Non-performing political leaders and  ministers are not replaced. Loyalty to those at the top is what  matters.Now SP has blown the whistle - but will it have any effect?