A few days after May 16, India's Congress Party and the Gandhi family that heads it will have been swept from power and a new government led quite probably by Narendra Modi, the Hindu-nationalist driven and feared Bharatiya Janata Party chief minister of Gujarat, will take office. This will, if the BJP has a sufficiently large mandate, lead to significant changes across a wide range of policies, and will give the business community and financial markets a surge of optimismThe dates for the polls, which were announced by the Election Commission this morning, run from April 7 to May 12 and involve 814m voter (100m more than in 2009), and 930,000 voting stations (up 12%). The count will take place on May 16, and the results will be announced quickly on that day through India's electronic voting system. How quickly a government is formed will depend on how clear the result is, and whether the BJP needs to win support from more parties to add to its National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition total.It is of course impossible to forecast the result but, judging by recent polls,  (left) Congress and its underachieving leader Rahul Gandhi and his mother Sonia are heading for a catastrophic defeat. So great is the expected drubbing that some commentators are wondering whether Congress will survive till the next election, or whether it will splinter and reform in some way with a new anti-corruption Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that did astonishingly well in Delhi state assembly elections at the end of last yearThat is a rather extreme theory and whether it has any prospect of happening depends on the number of seats that Congress wins. If it manages 100, then Rahul Gandhi will surely be given a chance to fight another election, but if it were under say 40 or 50, all bets would be off.Polls indicate (left) that Modi is gaining broad support across the country, including areas in the south where the BJP has never had a base, as well as in the key northern state of Uttar Pradesh where Modi seems to be rebuilding the BJP's former appeal. The question is whether that leads the BJP and its allies in the NDA to win 200 or more seats, and whether Modi would then be able to gain enough others parties' support to reach the 272 needed for a majority in the Lok Sabha.Such a result seems probable following extensive campaigning by Modi who is establishing his potential as a national economic growth-oriented leader and, in the process, is reducing the negative effect of Gujarat's 2002 riots for which he is widely held responsible, despite exoneration by the courtsThe unknown here is the AAP, which ruled Delhi for just 45 days and then resigned because an anti-corruption Lok Pal (ombudsman) bill that it wanted to introduce was not allowed under the constitution. During those 45 days, it ruled unconventionally and chaotically with its leader Arvind Kejriwal staging sit-ins and other street level demonstrations instead of conventional office and state assembly activities.That has led the middle class, which formed Kejriwal's original anti-corruption support base, to despair. But he has, reports suggest, increased his appeal among the less well off and the AAP is likely to do well in Delhi's general election constituencies. It seems unlikely but not impossible that it will manage to repeat its Delhi type of surprise result elsewhere and win enough seats to become a significant player after the election.If Modi fails to do as well as polls currently suggest, regional parties will become significant,  some of whom  last week formed what is termed a "third front", raising the possibility of a muddled directionless coalition. Various ambitious regional leaders are developing prime ministerial ambitions - they range from the erratic unpredictable Mamata Banerjee of West Bengal and the more middle class but unreliable J.Jayalalitha of Tamil Nadu, to Nitish Kumar of Bihar, whose political fortunes have slipped in recent months.As a journalist I have often been queried on my use of the words 'Hindu nationalist' for the BJP, but Modi has disposed of that problem because he described himself as one in an interview last year with Reuters. "I am nationalist. I'm patriotic. Nothing is wrong. I am born Hindu. Nothing is wrong. So I'm a Hindu nationalist. So yes, you can say I'm a Hindu nationalist because I'm a born Hindu," he told Reuters news agency in an interview in his official Gujarat residence in Gandhinagar.So watch out for a nationalist Hindu-inclined surge across the country if the election produces the result that, on present indications, seems likely.John Elliott writes a current affairs blog from India - http://ridingtheelephant.wordpress.com/ . His new book IMPLOSION: India's Tryst with Reality is currently topping non-fiction sales in Delhi. It is on sale across India and will be available internationally soon