While the rest of us sit and stare uncomprehendingly, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato and the Whitewater Committee press on with their investigation. 
  Was there wrongdoing on the part of Hillary Rodham Clinton  or is this just a Whitewater witch hunt in which the First Lady is cast as the First Witch? 
  What's it all about, Alfie? 
  "This is a very tough thing," D'Amato told me last week. "First we're trying to ascertain whether taxpayer money went into illegal deals. 
  "Second whether there was an attempt to stifle the investigation. Was there an abuse of power, was the law violated?" 
  He was talking of course, about an 11-year-old land deal that took place in Arkansas, and a Senate investigation that seems to be taking almost as long. 
  D'Amato was quick to defend the endless process. He maintained that key pieces of information were conveniently hidden or "lost" by the White House until it appeared too near to the Senate's Feb. 29, 1996, deadline to investigate fully.  
  "The White House stalled our continual efforts to get information. You've got to ask, why don't they want us to have the E-mail related to the case? We're told, you already have 50,000 [E-mail notes]. Great. But what if you're holding back the 10 key pages? 
  "And what about the appearance of the missing billing records [from the Rose Law Firm, where Hillary Clinton was employed]?" the senator asked. 
  "They miraculously appear on a table in [the Clintons' personal living quarters] in a room that no one had access to but the President, Mrs. Clinton, a few friends, and the cleaners. 
  "C'mon, now. They said there was construction work going on. So, did the construction workers put them there, and then their friend Mrs. [Carolyn] Huber happened to find them? The President said there is a gym off the room. What, is this the YMCA with members running in and out? 
  "These records were subpoenaed two years ago. Suddenly, on Jan. 4, they were found."  
  Republican counsel Michael Chertoff was quick to defend the investigation. 
  "Sen. D'Amato went to the floor with this in 1994, but it wasn't until May of 1995 that we got the authority to move ahead with an investigation," he said. 
  "We have literally spent just eight months on this. Some of the most important pieces of evidence have to be extracted, like dental work." 
  He continued, "There was supposed to be no involvement in Whitewater, then there was. People pled guilty in Arkansas, the McDougals are facing trial. Career prosecutors who were assigned to the case were furious because they were made to sit in the White House like potted plants. 
  "Time and again the party line that nothing inappropriate went on turned out to be untrue. 
  "Two years ago [White House aide Vince] Foster's death had nothing to do with Whitewater. It wasn't even on the radar screen. 
  "Then Foster's own documents said, 'Whitewater is a can of worms,' " Chertoff said.  
  To claims that this is a witch hunt, D'Amato answered, "Hey  I know what it's like to be accused unfairly. The American people think I subpoenaed Mrs. Clinton. I wasn't even there. I just want to know what happened. Mrs. Clinton did 60 hours of [legal] work [for the failing Arkansas thrift involved in the Whitewater land development deal in which the Clintons were involved]  not much. But what was the work, how was it conducted?" 
  It certainly appears that D'Amato, head of Sen. Bob Dole's campaign committee, is playing hardball on a dangerous field. 
  His critics say he should resign from Dole's campaign immediately. That's not  likely. 
  "Look, I'm not responsible for their memory loss. Mrs. Clinton's great lawyer friend, Susan Thomases, suddenly can't remember anything about Vincent Foster," D'Amato said. "The records of the night he died [show differently]. The amnesia is causing real problems." 
  "This is not pleasant stuff," said Chertoff, who nonetheless seems to be relishing the role. 
  "It's hard to listen to, but I don't think it serves the country well to close our eyes and pretend it's not there, either. 
  "Pretending you don't have a disease doesn't make it disappear." 
  But the case is taking its toll. 
  The latest poll showed that Americans seem to have had it with career politicians. They are even willing to vote for a rich man's son  Steve Forbes. 

  Eventually it will all shake out. Richard Nixon didn't survive Watergate, which also seemed like a silly thing at first. 
  It's too soon to know whether President Clinton will survive Whitewater. 
  Maybe there should be a sign in the Oval Office that says: "Don't Go Near The  Water." 
  You could get in over your head.