Lawyers for John Gotti, who once claimed he could do jail time standing on his head, want him moved from the stark, windowless prison cell where he has lived nearly four years of his life sentence. 
  The once Dapper Don, whose designer threads have been replaced by a red prison-issue jumpsuit, charges that he is being denied due process. His family and legal team argue that Gotti's grim existence in a 23-hour-a-day lockup with virtually no human contact violates the constitutional protection against cruel and unusual punishment. 
  Gotti's life in Cellblock D at one of the nation's toughest prisons, the Marion (Ill.) Federal Correctional Facility, is one of numbing routine and solitude, according to his family and his lawyers. 
  In exclusive interviews with the Daily News, they described how the man who prosecutors said ruthlessly climbed to the summit of the underworld as boss of the Gambino crime family lives in an 6-by-8-foot cell, which he is allowed to leave two days a week for an hour at a time. Then, he can use an outdoor space no bigger than the average living room. 
  The lawyers also revealed their strategy to undermine the credibility of Salvatore (Sammy Bull) Gravano, Gotti's one-time right-hand man who turned on his mentor and became the key prosecution witness against him. 
  Gotti's family and lawyers said they decided on their own to break the silence that has surrounded his imprisonment. They don't know what Gotti's reaction will be because he has insisted on keeping details of his jail time secret and repeatedly has told his lawyers, "I'm doing great." 
  Prison officials have turned down Gotti's four requests  which they say were made in his own handwriting  to be moved from Cellblock D and into Cellblock C. In the new cellblock he would be allowed slightly more time out from behind bars and occasionally could eat with other inmates. 
  The federal prison operations manual says that inmates at Gotti's security level will generally "be eligible for movement to the next level" after a year with an unblemished record. 
  Gotti's lawyers plan to file a court bid to have him moved, if he gives his a pproval. 
  The cell where Gotti has lived since his 1992 conviction for racketeering and murder conspiracy contains only a stainless steel sink and toilet combination and a shelf for toiletries. His bed is an 18-inch-wide concrete slab with a rollup mattress. 
  The only visitors Gotti is allowed are members of his immediate family and his lawyers. There can be no physical contact with them, or others, his lawyers said. The visitors and Gotti are separated by a clear plastic partition when they meet in a special room, and they communicate by telephone intercom. 
  Visitors must receive written permission from prison officials each time they want to see Gotti. He is allowed two phone calls a month. 
  "What my dad misses most is not being able to hug or kiss his grandchildren," said Gotti's daughter, Victoria. "He had an extraordinary relationship with them. He'd take them for the tree [at Christmas]; he became a kid with them. If we could have a contact visit it would be easier. There are 10 grandchildren. Four babies he's never even held." 
  During visits, the kids are held up to the glass and put their hands up to his, she said. 
  "My parents are like the rock of Gibraltar," said Victoria Gotti, referring to her mother, also named Victoria. "When you've lost a child, maybe you can endure anything." The Gottis' son, Frank, died in 1980 at age 12 after being struck by a car. 
  Gotti, once a gourmet, now eats from a food tray passed to him through a compartment. He is given a plastic spoon only  he is not permitted a fork. He is allowed neither radio nor television. He is permitted writing materials and books  history and nonfiction are his favorites, although he's a big John Grisham fan. Each day his family mails him copies of the three New York daily newspapers. He receives copies of USA Today each day. 
  "The only difference between this and a gulag is that you aren't thrown out in the cold," said Gotti lawyer John Mitchell. 
  "It's unbelievable," said Mitchell. "This is just retribution, pure and simple. It's a whole different level because the stakes are so high." 
  So stringent are the terms of Gotti's confinement, his lawyers said, that even weather conditions  including fog  can deprive him of time outside his cell. "One day it was foggy, and they wouldn't let me in for a legal visit, said another Gotti attorney, Linda Sheffield. "It's not like inmates go outside for visits. It's crazy." 
  In his last transfer request, Gotti wrote: "It appears a double standard is being employed by the team screening committee, which this inmate finds discriminative in nature and vitiates the meaning of due process and equal protection under the law by virtue of the federal Constitution." 
  In response, Ed Crosley, administrator of national inmate appeals, wrote: "You were denied placement in C-Unit due to your criminal history and leadership role in an organized crime family." 
  A prison spokeswoman, Tereser Banks, told The News: "Inmate Gotti is properly classified. . . . If there are any agendas or plans for change, we could not discuss it." 
  By comparison, Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, who was convicted in the plot to bomb New York City landmarks, is not separated from his visitors and lives in a five-room suite at the U.S. Medical Center in Springfield, Mo., with a study, a kitchen with microwave and refrigerator, a walk-in closet, a pay phone, three windows and a dining area. 
  Gotti, 55, is allowed to shower only three to five times a week. An associate said that after initially arriving at Marion, Gotti was moved to the shower area in a sort of rolling cage. Prison officials said only that the so-called cage does not now exist. 
  The famous Gotti hair, burnished silver in his heyday and always razor-cut, receives scant attention. 
  Every few weeks Gotti puts his head up against the bars, and someone comes by and cuts it with a clipper  not a scissor. Even so, said Sheffield, "His hair still looks great, like he's gone to a hairdresser." 
  During his last visit, Mitchell  who was separated from Gotti by a thick partition  picked up the intercom phone. "How's my posture?" Gotti asked. Mitchell was perplexed. "I haven't been permitted to sit in a chair [except for visits] for nearly four years," Gotti said. "And I ate my 4,000th meal alone recently."  
  When he saw the look on Mitchell's face, Gotti laughed and said, "Don't worry. I'm great. There's nothing in the world they can do to break me  they can hang me upside down if they want." 
  "You'll never hear John complain," said Sheffield, "and he's never looked better in his life. He's as hard as a brick. The only thing missing is his tan. He won't let them get to him." 
  Another Gotti attorney, Anthony Cardinale, said, "We've never put a big push [to get Gotti moved] because he's never complained. The government is waiting for him to say 'uncle,' and he'll never do it." 
  Cardinale said Gotti's daily routine includes 2,000 to 3,000 pushups, 1,000 to 2,000 stomach crunches, and arm curls using a towel looped through the bars. He's devised his own one-hour daily step program by climbing on and off his bunk.  
  He rolls up his mattress in the morning and doesn't put it back until the evening because he believes that lying down during the day would not be disciplined.  
  "He's always reading three or four books, which are generally nonfiction," said Cardinale. "He loves tough crossword puzzles to stimulate his mind. But it can't be any more abusive. It's almost medieval."