
	Fame used to be the big bitch in town, but now the famous themselves have become the bitches of fame thanks to empty-headed actors for whom too much is just, well, too, too much.
	Last week Charlize Theron and Gwyneth Paltrow said that the pressure of fame, in the age of the Internet, is as terrible as being raped, and as brutal as being in war. Make that rape and war with craft services catering between takes.
	Theron, girlfriend of humanitarian actor Sean Penn, said she tries not to Google herself because "when you start living in that world, and doing that, you start feeling raped."
	What's really incomprehensible is that when Theron was 15, she saw her own mother murder her abusive father in self-defense.
	How in hell does someone who has experienced that kind of horror as a kid compare her privileged adult life to that of rape victims?
	Maybe she was simply aping Kristen Stewart's brilliant observation that paparazzi photos made her feel "like I'm looking at someone being raped."
	They both need to have a long, brutal look at the heartbreaking photos of the two teenage girls who were gang-raped and then hanged in India last week in order to understand that rape is actually worse than being rich, famous and privileged.
	Earlier in the week, Gwyneth Paltrow, People's "Most Beautiful Woman in the World, 2013" whose parenting opinions made her 2014's "Most Annoying Woman in the World," has given up that title to become the "Most Moronic Woman in the World." Paltrow recently upped her idiot quotient when she compared slights lobbed against her on the Internet to the horrors of war. "It's almost like how, in war, you go through this bloody, dehumanizing thing," she said, adding, "My hope is that as we get out of it, we'll reach the next level of conscience." This from someone who seems to be not just unconscious but unconscionable.
	Again, Paltrow's not the first entertainer to compare acting to the ravages of war.
	We all know what Tom Cruise said last year, but did you know that the world's most failed father/patriot, Billy Ray Cyrus, whose triple platinum album "Some Gave All" about soldiers dying in war, is just as Hollywood a guy when it comes to the soldiers he sings about?
	He told GQ that "some gave all" is a motto he learned from a Vietnam vet, and then, compared it with "Hannah Montana?" I swear! "Hannah Montana!"
	"Some gave all," Cyrus said. "It is my motto. Guess what? I have to eat that one. I some-gave-all'd it all right, while everybody else was going to the bank. It's all sad." No, not really.
	Sad is losing your life, your limbs and your luck in war. Sad is definitely not feeling cheated out of royalties when you are worth $50 million big ones. Cyrus might consider being sad instead about raising a loony exhibitionist daughter with daddy issues.
	Forget war. Fame is hell.
	REALITY? DON'T BETH ON IT!
	It's funny how karma always comes back to bite you in the ass, no matter how skinny that ass is. For example, if you live a fake wonderful life in front of the camera, sooner or later, your horrible real life will also be on display.
	Take Bethenny Frankel, whose adult life has been predicated on one lie after the next in one tasteless fake reality show after the next.
	First, Bethenny was a "Real Housewife" without a husband. Then she found a guy (who pranced around in Richard Simmons shorts) for the shrilly, emasculating "Bethenny Getting Married." Next came "Bethenny Ever After," although the "ever after" lasted about as long as the show. Her next TV series was "Bethenny," a scream show that was tossed out with the trash.
	Now real life has intruded on her fake life and "Bethenny Getting Divorced" is playing out in court, and it's stinking up the joint like month-old roadkill.
	She could use a margarita.
	SNOWDEN'S SNOWING US ALL
	Edward Snowden is getting more publicity than 007, 008 and 009 put together.
	After talking to the New York Times, the Washington Post, and German TV, SKYPEing into a TED Conference, and being the subject of a documentary, Snowden was interviewed by Brian Williams on "NBC Nightly News."
	The spy who loved no one sailed through the softball questions whining about not wanting to end up in Russia. That's because his first choice was Cuba!
	Look, Snowden was absolutely right for wanting us to know what our government was doing behind our backs and in our faces, but now it seems he might have lied about going through internal channels first. In any case, he should have gone to Congress instead of a British tabloid.
	Jonathan Pollard has been rotting in jail for supplying our ally, Israel, with intelligence, while Snowden lives in Putin's Russia, an anti-gay, repressive regime that notoriously spies on citizens and levies $9,000 fines for participating in unsanctioned protests.
	We might not know whether he was a low-level analyst or a high-ranking spy, but we do know he's now a giant media whore.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Campaign Finance: Instead of spending their own dough for campaign kickoffs, presidential hopefuls now write books and let the publishers do the heavy campaign lifting for them.
	... Not D.U.M.B: Good thing Floyd Mayweather didn't punch out T.I. at their Vegas brawl, or T.I. would now be D.O.A.
	... Lo Schmo: Since J. Lo apparently isn't woman enough for Casper Smart, the former chorus boy went for a transgender former man instead.
	... V.A.—B.S.: How can Republican senators be so outraged over shoddy V.A. hospitals, if they were the ones who vetoed the $21 billion veterans' health and education bill?
	TOPLESS AND BRAINLESS
	A few days after the massacre of six college-age students in California, Bruce and Demi's daughter, Scout, launched a protest — going naked after Instagram removed one of her photos.
	Clearly she thinks that going topless is the most important social issue facing the nation right now, and so she walked around New York topless in protest. How could Instagram allow a photo of a woman hiding her nipples with handguns, but remove her account, the enraged spoiled child wants to know.
	PURE STERLING
	Everybody has a price, and Donald Sterling's price is $2 billion. That's what he's getting for the Clippers, the team he vowed to never sell. Two doctors diagnosed him with Alzheimer's, which gives him a way out, while providing an excuse for his inexcusable racism. Sounds like Sterling (right) is suffering from the same rare form of Alzheimer's that Vinnie (Chin) Gigante had.
	If you'd rather be read than to read, I'm excited to report that my novel, "The Sixth Station" came out this week on Audible. It's about a reporter, a murder, and oh, yes, the cloning of Jesus. Here's a link, let me know what you think, and I'll be sure to answer.