
	Bill Clinton! His very name is a noun for mover, an adjective for powerful and a synonym for statesman.
	Hillary Clinton! Her name has become a noun for shoo-in, an adjective for brilliant and a synonym for loyal wife.
	Monica Lewinsky? Her name was, is and always will be a noun for oral sex, an adjective for disgraceful and a synonym for whore. (Not to mention seductress, slut, laughingstock, fat girl, and, yes, nut job.)
	Does anyone — besides Lewinsky, who has written so eloquently about her nightmare in Vanity Fair — see how wrong it is to still blame the intern 16 years later? Worse, during that time, these two immoral, expectant Presidents-for-life not only got rich, but got away with smearing all the women with whom Bill got caught — and the numbers are legion — during his life of pathological, predatory sexual behavior.
	Isn't it about time that female voters in this country stopped marching in lockstep to the inevitable presidency of Hillary?
	This is a presumed presidential candidate whose last presidential campaign was often based on her husband's achievements, including campaign buttons sold inside her stump stops that touted her marriage to Bill.
	The achievements she claimed for herself, such as being instrumental in negotiating the peace in Northern Ireland and bravely running from possible sniper fire with her daughter in Bosnia, were bizarre lies. Her scheme for universal health care, devised by a panel of lawyers? Right.
	And as secretary of state? Benghazi, of course. Then, as Josh Rogin reported in The Daily Beast, the refusal during her tenure to designate Boko Haram, the group that kidnapped 300 schoolgirls, as a terrorist organization. What about any of this makes her presidential material?
	Did she refuse to see what was even going on in her own house — whether that was the White House or the Arkansas governor's mansion?
	As Monica points out in the article, no matter the number of sleazy liaisons Bill allegedly had, Hillary never blamed him.
	It was always a woman's fault, up to and including her own shortcomings as a wife for not realizing how burdened he was. With what? The crowd of women under his desk? Thus, the infamous Clinton "Bimbo Eruption Squad."
	It's been 16 years since that foolish girl was dragged out of a mall like Osama Bin Laden (whose terrorist camps Clinton only seemed to bomb when he was caught in a peccadillo), yet Lewinsky's pain, shame and ruination continue.
	Could any man bring Monica, "America's premier b--- job queen," home to meet his family or his friends without becoming a joke himself? No, and yet ironically we now have female entertainers like Miley Cyrus, younger now than Monica was then, simulating oral sex with Bill Clinton on stage and twerking everything in sight — and they are worshiped.
	Good for Monica to finally show the world that she's not the "narcissistic loony toon," as Hillary dubbed her. Perhaps that designation would better fit those who believe in their sovereignty and the right of succession.
	'RADICAL S--T'
	Pussy parties while Ukraine burns.
	If they'd been called Puppy Riot, or were homely instead of hot, no one would have noticed them.
	But instead Pussy Riot — a sociopathic bunch of media hounds — has a rabid following of politicians and artistes, who mistake them for anti-Putin freedom fighters because they went to jail for pranks that would have gotten them arrested in the U.S., too.
	Yet, as Putin's troops invaded Ukraine, Pussy Riot was making celeb-studded appearances like the White House Correspondents' Dinner and the PEN gala — from which I bolted in protest last week.
	What are these neo-punk "radicals" fighting for exactly? The right to perform a sex act with a frozen chicken in a supermarket, as one of them did?
	Think for a moment what would happen if they jumped on the altar of St. Pat's screaming "God s--t!" like they did in Moscow. Hate crime or heroic stance?
	What if they'd staged an anal sex orgy at our museum, like they did in Russia in front of astonished patrons? Porn or protest?
	Tom Wolfe called the moronic adoration of media darlings "radical chic." Pussy Riot would call it "Radical s--t!"
	SHAVING POINTS
	No wonder A-Rod shaves his legs and arms, and whatever other parts of him. Have you considered maybe it was necessary? No, I'm not saying it, or accusing him, but steroids do cause that tragic condition known as adult-onset excessive hair growth — but almost always on women. In any case, the ladies hate a hairy man.
	Hopefully he wasn't juicing the fake 'roids because those cause tremendous shrinkage of moving man parts, something ladies hate even more. Male leg shaving? A grooming catastrophe. Waxing man brows? A calamity of epic proportions up there with unrestrained use of man cologne.
	CHARITY BEGINS AT HOME, PONTIFF
	Pope Francis is calling for a more equal distribution of wealth, asking UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to consider "the legitimate redistribution of economic benefits by the state, as well as indispensable cooperation between the private sector and civil society." He should start by distributing the unimaginable Vatican wealth with or without the church's indispensable cooperation.
	SNACK ATTACK
	The New York State Senate spent 50 of our minutes debating Sen. Michael Ranzenhofer's bill making yogurt the state's official snack. While you might think this would be more appropriate in say, Bulgaria, Chobani is headquartered in New York. Got it? Good.
	While we don't have a state vegetable, we do have a state muffin — apple. Luckily, the apple muffins didn't get er, canned, in favor of yogurt. Hey — upstate jobs are hard to come by. Maybe our senators will handle that problem next.
	SOMETHING NEW
	Because I just received a "Walking Dead" Daryl Dixon action figure for a wedding present, I've decided to end the marriage. I want to spend my life stabbing zombies in the brain with my Little Daryl. Sorry, new hubby. Little Daryl and I will be chronicling our lives on Twitter and other social media as we make life worth dying in the zombie apocalypse.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Backsliding: In last week's gown, Rihanna gave new meaning to the term "backwards compliment." ... Horse Trading: Activists think carriage horses should be adopted by shelters, and the courts think human children should be adopted by V. Stiviano. ... Tarnished Donald: Donald the Trump better do something outrageous and he better be quick about it! Now that Donald the Sterling is in the picture, Trump is no longer the only bold-face/one-namer called Donald these days. ... Horny Donald: Speaking of which, Donald the Sterling says he was only a horny jealous lover, not a racist. And telling V. Stiviano, "You can sleep with them," proves how jealous he really must have been. What?