
	If the CIA (the Central Incompetence Agency) had spent as much time spying on Russia as it has on U.S. citizens and even on Congress, maybe, just maybe, somebody would have been able to warn us that Putin (aka Put-ler) was about to invade Crimea and steal an entire region of a country, provoking a world crisis.
	But instead, senators and representatives such as Sen. Diane Feinstein, head of the Senate Intelligence Committee, were too busy taking up valuable time raging that "The Company" may have spied on them to do anything before they left for vacation, leaving a situation that could plunge us into war — hot or cold.
	Yes, on Thursday as thousands of Czar Putin's Cossacks marched on Ukraine despite warnings from our weak President, the bums in Congress split for a 10-day vacation as though they were working for the DMV.
	Only Sen. John McCain — who lived through the Cold War and survived as a POW — seems to understand the worldwide impact of their laziness, calling their vacations "shameful."
	These lowlifes left without publically addressing the reasons they were misinformed about Putin's preparations to annex Crimea. What did they think Put-ler would do when he offered asylum to the most corrupt, thieving, ousted head of state since Ferdinand Marcos?
	RELATED: STASI: ALEC BALDWIN MAKES NO SENSE IN NYC RANT
	How did they all miss everything that was brewing in Russia regarding Ukraine? Were our reps too busy looking at travel brochures to demand answers? This isn't just about Putin illegally annexing Crimea, it's about history. Have they forgotten that for decades we were this close to nuclear holocaust with Russia? Did they forget that those who can't remember history are condemned to repeat it?
	How is it possible that the CIA didn't know Russia was wiping their insignias off tanks, planes and ships, and removing all Russian identification from the uniforms of the Cossacks? Why didn't they know that Russia was about to invade with artillery batteries, assault helicopters and thousands of soldiers?
	Why have they bought the flat-out bull that Put-ler is using to invade the country and spreading about the threat to ethnic Russians? Meantime, gunfire broke out in the region on Friday leaving two dead. Now that the Russians are in charge, the details are of course, murky.
	My friends there — ethnic Russian, Ukrainian and Tatar alike, who were born and live in the now-besieged city of Simferopol — tell a different tale.
	They say the Russian takeover is mostly favored by older people who bought the fantasy that the brutality of the former Soviet Union was paradise. They want to belong to a superpower again despite the USSR's humiliating downfall-by-corruption.
	The young people who have grown up without the specter of the corrupt Soviet Union hanging over their heads don't want war or corruption — that's why they ousted the government.
	Why are we allowing Congress and President Obama to fiddle while Ukraine burns? Shame on U.S.
	NONSENSE DEFENSE
	Either Oscar Pistorius' take-your-throat-out pitbull guarddogs are the dumbest beings on the planet for allowing an intruder to break into the house, or Pistorious thinks everyone else is for buying his crazy tale. The Blade Runner's dogs didn't raise a fuss, and yet Pistorius still thought intruders were in the bathroom and so shot girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp to death? Through the door? By mistake? Makes sense to me.
	PLANE CRAZY
	It was an invisibility cloak, it was numerologically pre-destined (Flight 370, disappeared almost on 3/7 while traveling 3,700 km), aliens took it, Freescale Semiconductor employees aboard did it, it was swallowed by a black hole blown into the universe by an iPhone-detonated bomb, it was stolen for resale, it was hijacked to a secret tropical tropical island. (By whom? Rogue travel agents?)
	What did conspiracy theorists do before the Internet — meet in finished basements decked out in aluminum foil hats? Yes.
	While I am not opposed to the alien abduction theory myself, my brother, the pilot, engineer, and smarty pants theorized: "The plane could have reversed course at the initial point of lost contact and crossed the Malay Peninsula, westbound, with the transponder turned off. Then, by calculating the satellite pings against a phenomenon known as propagation delay, it appears that the aircraft had traveled northwest toward Kazakhstan, or southwest toward the Indian Ocean. Once into uncontrolled airspace, its potential destinations — intended or imposed — become as numerous as the area is wide." Right. I still wish somebody would call Giorgio Tsoukalos.
	SCHOOL OR BUST
	What a girl won't do for a good education these days!
	Last week Duke University student/porn actress Miriam Weeks (aka Belle Knox) said she only became a porn star to pay her tuition.
	For a smart girl she sounds like an idiot. Did she ever learn to add?
	She makes as little as $1,500 per movie, which she uses to pay her tuition of nearly $60,000. What? That, er, comes to 40 nasty flicks a year. She'd do better working at Hooters. Of course, at Hooters she'd be on her feet as opposed to her back.
	Then there's bratty 18-year old Rachel Canning, who left home, moved in with her best friend's family and proceeded to sue her parents to pay her bills and college tuition. Where'd she get the money to sue and continue the lifestyle to which her parents had accostomed her? From the friend's dad, former Morris County Freeholder, John Inglesino. Yuck. Maybe he's the one who should have been hauled into court.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Maybe celebrities just need new tailors. I mean, when was the last time your dress/top/skirt fell off/fell down on the very day you forgot to wear underwear? Right ... An Irish-American colleague's note: The Irish were denied opportunities and persecuted when they arrived here because of the very stereotypes we celebrate on St. Patty's Day, like falling down drunk. Imagine if we celebrated Martin Luther King Day by wearing fake Afros and eating fried chicken? Not okay.
	TARGET'S BIG GAP
	Target was smack in the bull's-eye of a national embarrassment last week when they ran an ad featuring a teen bikini model whose legs had been so Photoshopped so that she ended up with a space between her thighs the size of the Cumberland Gap. The thigh gap was bad enough, but in their rush to reduce, they also managed to eliminate her crotch. Not that I have any personal knowledge of too-thin thighs, but even I know that a girl can live and function with skinny legs and a big thigh gap, but not without a crotch. Crotchless panties, yes, crotchless models, no.
	HIT AND RUN
	When Kevin Spacey appeared on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" right after Toronto crack mayor Rob Ford, he quipped, "That's the first time I've had to follow a Ford. And one that was so banged up." Ford later smacked back on YouTube, saying, "I wouldn't know him if I ran over him." Considering Ford's affinity for drinking and driving, that is a real possibility. Run, Kevin, run!
	PHOTOS: KANYE WEST VS. JIMMY KIMMEL: WORST CELEBRITY FEUDS