
	Last week was a big one for racists and the women who love them.
	Immediately upon discovering the racist rants not just by Clippers owner Donald Sterling, but also by populist rancher Cliven Bundy and TV star Jeremy Clarkson, the media went berserkers predicting their collective timely demises.
	The NBA even went so far as to ban the badly tarnished Sterling for life and to demand that he sell the team.
	Really? Not so fast.
	When old white guys — especially rich and famous old white guys — hurl racial slurs and behave in the most heinously bigoted ways, they usually don't lose it all — or any of it, actually.
	Remember the horror and outrage a few months ago when swamp-dwelling "Duck Die-Nasty" bazillionaire Phil Robertson endorsed pedophilia ("marry girls when they're 15"), homophobia, ("insolent, arrogant, God-haters") and racism ("I'm with the blacks, because we're white trash")? He lost, well, nothing but two weeks of work at AE.
	The same can't be said for old (or young) rich white women, not that very many racist women have been outed — yet.
	Rich ol' white woman Paula Deen, for example, got broiled, baked and fired not just by the Food Network, but by her marketing partners and the media after a disgruntled ex-employee sued her in a racial discrimination case.
	Nobody bothered to care (except the judge who threw the discrimination case out) that the racially violated employee was a white woman Deen had fired for being a lazy ass. Yes, Deen is now in talks for a TV revival with a deep-pocketed investor, but that TV revival remains to be seen. Meantime, she's doing penance by attempting a different revival of sorts — embarking on a traveling modern-day, food revival show. Hail cheeses!
	Will this week's racist guys meet the same fate? Doubtful.
	The Clippers owner — the tarnished Sterling whose two-dollar girlfriend, V. (for visor?) Stiviano, gave (she denies it) his racist phone conversations to TMZ — probably won't lose the team (it's in a family trust for one thing, and the NBA probably doesn't have the legal rights for another), or his money (he paid $12.5 million, and it's now worth half a billion). Sterling is safe — unless of course Mistress V. actually fulfills her lifelong dream and becomes President of the United States. Then he's toast.
	Back on the ranch, populist/Fox favorite, federal land-defiant rancher Cliven Bundy, who shocked everyone when he morphed into Al Bundy by declaring that blacks were better off as slaves, might have lost the public relations war, but that has nothing to do with this anti-hero's relations with his adoring public.
	Finally, Jeremy Clarkson, star of BBC's "Top Gear," used the N-word while reciting the children's rhyme, "Eeny, meeny, miny, moe" on camera. He now says he did "everything in his power to not use that word." What?
	Don't worry about Jeremy. He was vindicated by none other than Britain's education secretary, who declared that Clarkson should not lose his job. What kind of nursery rhymes are they teaching over there?
	BELATED HONEYMOON
	Maybe honeymoons are overrated. Take Mayor de Blasio, who was denied the love fest usually granted new mayors.
	Meantime, while everyone was screaming about everything, de B was quietly negotiating a contract with the teachers union that gives teachers the dignity denied them during Bloomberg's reign of error. The contract, which Bloomberg refused to handle for five long years, gives teachers retroactive pay, puts a clamp on bad teachers and offers teachers a leadership path.
	In return, the union will reduce health care costs by $1.3 billion. (How sick are they?) Bad teachers won't be tolerated and great teachers will soar. Yup, honeymoons are overrated. Prez Obama had a big honeymoon and now half the country wants to divorce him.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Fight Song: If a domestic dispute can produce an après fight song like Edie Brickell and Paul Simon's new tune, "I'd Like to Get To Know You Again," maybe they should shove each other around in the barn more often.
	... Puke Ain't Cute: Jennifer Lawrence says she got so party drunk that she publicly puked, to the disgust of Miley Cyrus. That's like Hannibal Lecter being revolted by your table manners.
	Wives and Loafers: GLAAD that one organization at least sees that the "Real Housewives" are professional freeloaders who think charities, like husbands, should foot the bills for them.
	... Good Council: Councilwoman Maria del Carmen Arroyo says she has a responsibility to represent constituents' interests in the horse carriage issue, which leaves us 50 self-interested horses' asses.
	CRACKY WACKY FORD
	What in hell is the world coming to when a hard-partying crackpot, crackhead mayor can't even trust his favorite crack dealer to be discreet?
	Last week, just days after out-of-control, out-of-his-mind Toronto Mayor Rob Ford declared that he'd seek another term, his dealer offered a video of Ford and his crack pipe to the media for big, big bucks.
	Finally shamed into it, Ford's handlers made him go to rehab, but his dealer said no, no, no!
	BOO-HOO, BEN
	Ben Affleck got booted from the Hard Rock for counting cards and was taken home in a car. This is not the way counters are usually treated. I know this because some of my best husbands have been card counters. Take hubby Sid Davidoff and his bud Jeff Katzenberg, who were kicked not just out of casinos, but whole countries for practicing their art.
	UPTON YOURS, KATE
	Isn't it about time that the world's most perfect woman, Kate Upton (as opposed to the world's fattest woman, below), stopped complaining about her body? First she supposedly griped that her breasts were too big (no), and at a recent photo shoot quipped that her other ass-ets were being ignored in favor of her giant boobs and proceeded to stick her butt into the lens. Consider it noticed.
	FAT CHANCE
	How is it possible that the fattest woman in the world, 765-pound Charity Pierce, who is engaged to be married to a normal-sized, 22-year-old lover (they met when he was 8!), isn't worried about finding that perfect size 500 wedding dress, but she's worried about losing enough weight to fit into wedding cowboy boots?
	Meantime, half the thin, young, beautiful women in New York — who earn their own Manolos — can't get a date. Go figure. In case you were wondering how Charity got her guy, it's all in the family: She already has a child by her lover's brother.