
	Pro-gun, red-blooded and beige-haired 110% Americans like Donald Trump gathered together on April (big) Fools' Day to behave as un-American as they could, er, muster, at an anti-SAFE gun law rally in Albany. The law, favored by 63 percent of New Yorkers, limits high-capacity magazines and requires background checks, among other restrictions.
	The protest rally had been predicted to be and was so filled with nut jobs that even Tom King, head of the state gun PAC, the Rifle  Pistol Association, had planned to avoid it like Tea Partiers avoid a Rosie O'Donnell gay cruise. He was probably afraid he'd get shot.
	He relented and showed, but didn't speak. And as feared, the protesters behaved so moronically that they ended up not just not making their point but missing the point completely.
	Some, like Melbourne Sann, who was dressed in the Revolutionary War uniform he probably wears as a weekend re-enactor, strung up a blow-up doll of Gov. Cuomo in effigy. He proceeded to hit blow-up Andrew with a fake rifle, explaining — inexplicably — that he was doing this "before we have to come down here with regular weapons." Oh.
	Great idea, Melbourne! A man dressed like George Washington threatening to storm the state capital with an assault weapon is one sure way to get the SAFE law repealed. "Repeal that law right now. The nation's first president's packing an AK-47 and he's not afraid to use it!"
	Tragically, two days later, at Fort Hood, where the 2009 gun massacre occurred, Spc. Ivan Lopez went berserk, killing three and wounding 16 others. Lopez bought the gun from the same shop, Guns Galore, as had the 2009 mass murderer, Maj. Nidal Hasan.
	Despite all this, the PACs supported by the National Rifle Association and other all-bets-are-off gun rights groups insist that laws like SAFE are not an assault on humans but an assault on our Second Amendment rights.
	Later in the week, big-money super PACs were again in the news when the Supreme Court somewhat leveled the playing field between limitless spending political action committees and individuals by allowing individuals to spend more on candidates than previously allowed. No, not more than we already do on a single federal candidate, but now we can give that much to every candidate across the country.
	Of course, this isn't exactly going to be a relief to those of us who have been dying to give more than we actually make to politicians who don't do what we want anyway, but it will mean crazy-rich guys like Bill Gates and maybe soon all NCAA college athletes can spend that much on every candidate running in federal elections.
	Since the law already allowed super PACs to do that through the sneaky back door, now individuals — rich individuals — can pass the dough through the open front door.
	LIFE ON THE MOON
	American and Italian scientists announced on Thursday that a body of water the size of Lake Superior has been discovered on the small Saturn moon of Enceladus.
	While the moon is tiny — 310 miles across — the ocean-lake is not, and could be 6 miles deep and as big as Enceladus itself. That's a lotta water.
	More astonishingly is that this mini-moon, which has been studied by the NASA spacecraft Cassini (which was not in fact designed by the dead couturier), contains — yes! — all the elements for life as we know it: energy, carbon, nitrogen and liquid water.
	The watery news reportedly sent earth-bound CEOs at Coke, Pepsi and Poland Spring into corporate frenzies.
	No, not because extraterrestrial life might exist, but that Enceladus extraterrestrials might be too dumb to have secured the water rights.
	However, as "Ancient Aliens" theorist David Childress, who hasn't changed his corduroy jacket since he was an ancient alien himself, would contend: No! The discovery of this ocean proves that extraterrestrial rock monsters had the kind of advanced technology to not just create the lake but to build the very ark Noah used in the movie.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Durdy McCurdy: One way to insure that your daughter will go bad is to have her star as a good girl on a tween TV show ... Selfless Gestures: If the selfie had never been invented, would humans still have been driven to find new and exciting ways to humiliate themselves? ... Blue Tube: It only took one TV interview for Bill Bratton to turn the blue wall of silence bright red with embarrassment ... UFO WTF? Bill Clinton admited to Jimmy Kimmel that he had "people" look into the Roswell, N.M., crash to see if they were holding aliens there. They didn't find even one. Well, they didn't find any except the ones that had been caught slipping over the border — from Mexico, not Mars ... Fit for a queen: Queen Elizabeth visited the Pope, and came bearing, yes, a bottle of whiskey in a goody basket like your cheap uncle Al. Maybe she knows that Francis loves nothing better than knocking back a bottle after a tough day of exorcisms.
	LETTERMAN'S TOP 10 REASONS FOR RETIRING
	Courtesy of Confidenti@l's Brian Niemietz:
	
	10. I'm getting my ass kicked in the ratings.
	9. I can spend more time with Jay Leno.
	8. I'm tired of making up Top Ten lists.
	7. Wait — CBS announced I was retiring?
	6. Late-night TV is for guys named Jimmy.
	5. I can't handle one more night of contact buzzes from Paul and the Band.
	4. The interns around here aren't as easy as they used to be.
	3. I'm following Katie Couric to Yahoo!
	2. I'm really, really rich.
	1. I retired in 2004. Where's everyone been?
	LIONS AND TIGERS AND...
	The city's nanny squad has now barred tigers and elephants from the UniverSoul Circus. Soon the only animals permitted in the city will be the ones we elect. The monitors claim the tiger cages are bad for the animals, but haven't yet noticed (thank God!) the humans spinning around a small, round cage at breakneck speed in the fantastic Globe of Death.
	LAWSON'S LAWLESS BAN
	Who is more annoying, relentlessly self-promoting chef Nigella Lawson, banned from boarding a flight to the U.S. because of admitted drug use, or her TV partner, relentlessly self-promoting chef Anthony Bourdain? He tweeted he was "absolutely mortified with embarrassment over the cruelty and hypocrisy" of our government for turning her away. Sorry, Ant'ny, not allowing a TV chef to board a first-class seat doesn't really rank that high on the mankind cruelty scale.
	FRANKLY FALSE?
	Just in time to publicize his movie "Palo Alto," in which he plays a high school coach fooling around with a teen student, James Franco got "caught" trying to pick up a 17-year-old high school girl on Instagram. The whole thing smells worse than Willy Nelson is supposed to, since the alleged "victim's" age luckily just skirts the New York State minor's law. Either it was an incredibly creepy publicity stunt, or Franco is the new Woody Allen.