
	GRIMM-LY LACKING IN CURTIS-Y
	Being a politician is like being a former child star.
	Booze, babes, bad boys, bad endings, scandals, shame, stints in the slammer, rinse, repeat, rehab.
	The only difference between them is that politicians steal our money and child stars have managers to steal it for — and from — them.
	Last week was such a big week for politicians behaving badly that it made the Hollywood half-wits look like priests. Oh wait, bad comparison.
	Take Rep. Michael Grimm, the Republican congressman who single-handedly made the Democratic president's State of the Union address the most talked about political event of the year.
	Not the speech itself — only three people stayed awake for that. But tens of millions were glued to the post-game show when Grimm threatened to clock, sock and break NY1 reporter Michael Scotto "in half ... like a boy" who wasn't "man enough."
	That was after threatening to throw him "off the f---ing balcony." Really Grimm? No pol's gotten away with the death-by-balcony move since Gene Hackman in "No Way Out."
	As for Scotto? He told me, "At no point did I ever feel that Congressman Grimm was going to lay a hand on me." So who's the real man, now, Congressman? Scotto won the fight without lifing a finger, and Grimm's in the fight of his life to save his sorry ass.
	Ironically, it was the Republican machine that forced Vito Fossella from the seat Grimm now holds because Fossella (who they might want back) got nailed for DUI and fathering a child out of wedlock. Quaint, considering those are now prerequisites in politics.
	RELATED: NEW YORK REP. MICHAEL GRIMM THREATENS REPORTER AFTER BEING ASKED ABOUT FUNDRAISING ALLEGATIONS
	No? Just this week Democratic Queens Borough President Melinda Katz, who has two children via in vitro fertilization by Curtis Sliwa, was named in a suit by his ex.
	Sliwa's ex, Mary, says Katz's kids were the result of a steamy affair and had as little to do with frozen goods as an organic farm stand.
	Now the dirty diapers are out and stinking up the joint.
	Forget DUI. In Katz's case, it's more DIV (doubtful in-vitro). Even though Katz said Sliwa had banked the sperm before his marriage, the truth is that sperm would have been so old by that time their babies would have been born holding AARP cards.
	Katz's embarrassing messages to Sliwa show that before, during and after his marriage to Mary, Katz and Sliwa were shagging like a 1980's rug.
	Meantime, Sliwa's trying to cut his $13,000 monthly support payments to Mary for their disabled child, while paying Katz $20G's a month in child support.
	I love New York! On what other planet, in what other borough, could a working woman like Katz make $20,000 extra a month in child support, when she and the kids live with the guy?
	The real question is how in hell did the shot-up Sliwa manage to impregnate his 51-year-old wife and his younger mistress — twice? Who is he, Warren Jeffs?
	It must be the hat.
	RELATED: CURTIS SLIWA HAD SEX TRYST WITH QUEENS POLITICIAN MELINDA KATZ ON NIGHT BEFORE MARRIAGE IN 2000
	CHRISTIE EXCUSE JERSEY STRONG
	What can you expect when you fire a guy — loyalty?
	On Friday, a lawyer for David Wildstein, the Port Authority suit and former buddy of N.J. Gov. Chris Christie who was canned after Bridgegate was exposed, fired off a letter to the Port Authority asking that they pay for Wildstein's legal defense. So far, par for the course.
	Tucked into the letter was an incendiary, if vague, assertion that Christie not only knew about the bridge lane closings but about smelly land deals as well. Wildstein claims there's evidence. Sounds good, but show me the money. Oh, wait, that's the sentence that always gets pols in trouble.
	Christie's office immediately issued a denial, also par for the course.
	If evidence really does exist, he was a fool to think the people he threw to the wolves would take the hit quietly. We'll know soon enough. If the Port Authority agrees to pay the legal fees, it means Wildstein showed them the goods on the gov. If they won't, don't count Christie out just yet.
	RELATED: GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE KNEW ABOUT GEORGE WASHINGTON BRIDGE LANE CLOSURES DURING SHUTDOWN: AIDE
	THE SCHOOL OF HARD KNOX
	If the United States government capitulates to the Italian demand that American student Amanda Knox be sent back to Italy and thrown into prison after she was acquitted, those responsible should face their own kangaroo court.
	The fact that a case against Knox's prosecutor, Giuliano Mignini, is still pending for abuse of office seems to mean nothing. The fact that her life hinged on the evidence presented by this maniacal loose cannon, scant DNA evidence and the word of a homeless drug addict, also means nothing.
	Knox's conviction was never based on evidence, but on her postmurder behavior and even on her nickname, Foxy Knoxy, which was given to her for her soccer prowess, not her sexual prowess.
	But the prosecutor, the international media and the jury discarded the evidence in favor of the salacious words of a drug dealer.
	She was acquitted because of the bad evidence, and now they decide she's guilty anyway? I'd like to tell you what we say in Italian, but this is an American family newspaper.
	RELATED: AMANDA KNOX VOWS TO FIGHT GUILTY VERDICT: 'THIS IS WRONG, AND I'M GOING TO DO EVERYTHING I CAN TO PROVE IT'
	FLYING SO HIGH
	Justin Bieber, who's dressing like a bad marriage between "Miami Vice" and "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air," had his plane detained at Teterboro Airport. A member of the flight crew was so ticked at all the toking we hear was going on that she called it in.
	Biebs was hauled away in front of his ever-vigilant dad, who must think filling a flight with pot fumes is all good. But, Dad was said to be frantic. No Biebs, no babes, no Super Bowl, no dough, no drugs. All bad.
	RELATED: JUSTIN BIEBER FREE TO ENTER U.S. AFTER JET DETAINED AT TETERBORO AIRPORT IN NEW JERSEY, SEARCHED FOR MARIJUANA
	EVERYWHERE A SIGN
	Over ten days this January the following things occurred that aren't supposed to happen: The Christ the Redeemer Statue in Rio was struck by lightning, a family in Indiana claimed they were possessed and witnesses saw their child climb a wall backwards.
	Video surfaced of Pope Francis performing a mini-exorcism, and he's looking for experienced exorcists. When he had kids release doves, they were attacked by other birds. Having traveled with a Vatican exorcist for my book, The Sixth Station, nothing surprises me. Almost.
	SUPER BALLS
	What rich guy sells his effects, let alone sells his fake personal effects so he can keep the real ones? Those are the allegations from a guy who profited from selling what he claims was fake Eli Manning equipment, which he thought was real.
	The same yutz now claims he saw a dry cleaner damaging Giants uniforms so they'd look "game-worn" when sold. But he never said anything? It's all nutty. It would be like swapping out the Mona Lisa and trying to hang the real one in your living room.
	RELATED: ELI MANNING SAYS HE AND NY GIANTS WILL FIGHT LAWSUIT CLAIMING THEY SOLD 'FAKE' SPORTS COLLECTIBLES
	WRITING'S WRONG
	What's with the much-hyped Writing Room, in the old Elaine's?
	First, it's no Elaine's, but then neither was Elaine's at the end, even though people act like closing it down was a bigger NYC drain than if the power grid had crashed.
	That being said, I went once. For starters, the love object's fish dish was so salty, farm animals stampeded down Second Avenue just to lick him.
	The only writing in evidence? Texting by trust funders in fur coats.
	LINDSEY LOOKS VONN-DERFUL
	Skiing star Lindsey Vonn sported a stylish bandage on her wounded leg to go with her smoking hot dress at ESPN The Party Friday night at Basketball City.