
	Hey boys — your Freudian slips are showing.
	Last week, ultimate hipster Spike Lee of the porkpie hat, tiny jackets, and horn-rim specs ranted about his hatred for hipsters and the white people who have gentrified Brooklyn, making it impossible for poor black people to live there.
	That must be why he picked up his hats and moved out of Brooklyn back in the '90s, to a $32 million townhouse on the Upper East Side, a 'hood so white it looks like the arctic, and so permanently gentry'd it went from a neighborhood of poor millionaires to a neighborhood of poor billionaires.
	If that isn't movie mogul divo enough for one city, we also had an "I Hate New York" rant by the world's most annoying hot head, Alec Baldwin, who took to the media to spew his hatred not just for the city, but for the media.
	And where did he do this? In New York magazine, of all places. Why didn't he do it in Los Angeles magazine, since he claims to love L.A. because he can get privacy there. What?
	Baldwin was in desperate need of an editor. He must have been tragically denied and so was allowed to ramble endlessly. He also said he wants (please God) to leave New York City and public life for good. Actually, most of us would say it's not just for good but for better.
	Meantime, before the downward-facing dog kicks New York City in our big assana again, he will take time out to play, yes, I swear, a crusading columnist in a "Law  Order: SUV" episode. With any luck, he'll beat himself up.
	In addition to his hatred for New York and the media, Baldwin wrote how he hates and/or lacks respect for: TMZ, Anderson Cooper, MSNBC, Rachel Maddow, gays who think he's a homophobe, straights who think he's a homophobe, and Shia LaBeouf. (OK, he's got a point on that last one.)
	Who/what does he love? His wife, and woman-basher Martin Bashir. Oh, and Brooklyn, where — he says — the soul of New York "has moved." Quick, somebody call Spike Lee and tell him to go back and find his soul. Forget New York Mag's downward spiral into a bi-monthly. If they keep printing psycho-ramblings like Baldwin's diatribe, it'll become a yearly before you know it.
	But what's distressing here is that celebs who claim to hate journalists so much (but can't wait to play us as heroes in movies and on TV) are being allowed, even encouraged, by publishers to use the media they despise as forums in which to bitch, moan and spit their personal venom.
	It's not just Baldwin, either.
	Who can forget the endless hate spate between Dylan Farrow and Woody Allen in the New York Times yet? Mad, loony, personal, unedited ramblings have no place in legitimate media. This is why God made Facebook.
	PHOTOS: ALEC BALDWIN LASHES OUT AT PHOTOGRAPHER: STARS WHO ATTACK PAPARAZZI
	THE GREEN DIVIDING LINE
	St. Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland like parade organizers have driven gay groups out of the parade. Here's how three prominent pols — Irish and not — see it:
	Mayor de Blasio (not marching): "I think that the (City Council) took a position that was thoughtful and principled. I personally cannot march in a parade that excludes people as a policy. I wish it were different because celebrating Irish heritage in this city is important ... and if our employees in city government choose to join, we'll respect that."
	Rep. Peter King (past grand marshal, marching): "Gays are allowed to march, but the parade is run almost like a paramilitary organization with strict guidelines. To keep it in context, there are no homophobic signs, or say, 'single mothers' or 'single fathers' banners allowed either. I'm very proud to be marching with the 69th Infantry."
	Kathleen Rice (Nassau County DA, congressional candidate, not marching): "(Irish Americans) know what it feels like to be persecuted and should be leaders in these movements for equality and tolerance. I'm confident we'll all get there. And if the mayor's protest causes someone to reexamine the modern wisdom of an old belief, that's a good thing."
	RELATED: STASI: STASI: NEW ANTI-GAY BILL PROVES ARIZONA IS THE LAND OF DINOSAURS — AND BIGOTS
	HOLLYWOOD HUSTLE
	Cate Blanchett is tonight's favorite for her turn in Woody Allen's "Blue Jasmine." Too bad the emphasis will be on Allen. It's kind of a lose-lose for her even if she wins. Here's why: Blanchett's Jasmine is a boozed-up ex of a Wall Street wolf. Broke, she goes to stay with her estranged sister (Sally Hawkins) in San Francisco. Instead of the performances degenerating into the not-that-again, over-acted family dynamic of "Osage County," Blanchett never loses her quirkiness, which keeps Jasmine firmly grounded by gravity.
	RELATED: STASI: STASI: WOODY ALLEN, MIA FARROW DRAMA WORTHY OF A TALK SHOW
	TV GUIDED 
	The Good: Science Channel's "Are We Alone?" proves that intelligent life in the universe is more intelligent than the jokes at the Oscars ... The Bad: White lady chef Paula Deen told People she feels like that "black football player who recently came out." ... The Funny: TV's biggest laughs last week? Rosanna and Greg playing "Spot the Hipster" in Spike's old hood.
	THE REALITY IN UKRAINE
	My family owns a home and a business with 100 employees in Crimea, Ukraine, the heart of the Russian invasion. It's a place where citizens have tried for decades to keep their fractured allegiances to themselves in order to live and work together.
	Then came the revolution, and in came Putin, Russia's answer to Tony Soprano. The thug, fresh off his star turn at the Olympics, wants to keep showing the world his muscles like a roid-crazed weightlifter.
	Yet as of Saturday, even after he asked the Russian senate to formally invade Ukraine, in Crimea things were still quiet. They tell me Russian soldiers were polite, schools and businesses were open, the Internet was back, and unlike some Western reports, soldiers continued to tell any citizen who asked exactly where they were from.
	But the precipice could tip any second. The feeling, one resident told me, is that "If Putin does what he did in South Ossetia, it could set off World War III."
	President Obama warned of "costs" if Russia invaded. They did. What now? How come only "SNL" laughing stock Sarah Palin predicted this? Maybe she really can see Russia from Alaska.
	KENNEDY CRASHES
	Another moving vehicle, another Kennedy skates in the long history of Kennedy behind-the-wheel disasters. 1943: Collision of the PT 109 boat, two dead. 1944: Joseph P. Kennedy Jr.'s plane explodes. 1969: Edward Kennedy drives off bridge, killing Mary Jo Kopechne. 1973: Joseph P. Kennedy II overturnes a Jeep, leaving one woman paralyzed. 1999: JFK Jr., Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and her sister, Lauren, die when their plane crashes. 2012: Kerry Kennedy side-swipes a truck in a drug stupor and walks away — unscathed.
	EXPRESS LINES
	It took four weeks for the medical examiner to establish that Phillip Seymour Hoffman died of "acute, mixed drug intoxication." Really? ... Eliot Spitzer in a ridiculous baseball cap and his young girlfriend Lis Smith shamelessly made out at a Knicks game like a couple of attention-hungry movie stars. Is there enough disinfectant in the world to clean those seats so they can ever be used again?