
	Imagine a job where every five minutes you get to go to an awards ceremony where you win prestigious honors and are lauded for the importance of "the work" as though you'd cured cancer, when in fact, all you had actually done was recite other people's words better than the guy in the next seat recited other people's words.
	Welcome to the endless Hollywood awards season, which kicked off big-time last Sunday with the Golden Globes, which is as legitimate as knock-off DVDs — and just as profitable.
	At least watching the grifting Globes used to be fun, but now it's become something else: the Oscars.
	Last week's Globes was an epic of nonsensical speeches by overpaid actors faking earnestness. The attempt at earnest was even matched by the ads, the worst of which was the Chrysler commercial, which intoned, "Not everyone can have this award..." Well actually, yes everyone can. Depends on what you're willing to pay.
	PHOTOS: GOLDEN GLOBES 2014: BEST AND WORST RED CARPET LOOKS
	But that was last week's news, and by Thursday, people were working up their outrage for the Oscar nominations and snubs.
	Hello? Benghazi and Bridgegate are issues to get outraged about. The Oscar snub of Tom Hanks? Not so much.
	I'm not outraged. Well no more than usual, but not about the Oscars. Sorry, but I agree that "Lee Daniels' The Butler" didn't deserve a "Best Picture" nomination. It was all made up. Sure, there was a long-time White House butler, but his name was Eugene Allen, not Cecil Gaines. His wife wasn't a drunk and his son didn't run with the Black Panthers, nor did he tell Jackie Kennedy to get out of her bloody clothes after the assassination. Who was he? Zelig?
	The snub that does annoy here? The nomination that should have gone to Oprah Winfrey. She was simply spectacular. Oprah was much better in "The Butler" than perpetual winner/nominee Meryl Streep was in "August: Osage County." Streep ate so much scenery in "Osage," she must have gained 12 pounds.
	Then there's the snub of Emma Thompson in "Saving Mr. Banks." Hey — just because she endured a bad perm doesn't mean we have to endure your outrage that she was snubbed. She wasn't that great. Ditto Hanks in that one, too. As for Amy Adams and Jennifer Lawrence? How could they not get nominations? The odds were with them. I mean they each starred in 567 movies this year alone.
	Of course it was a given that Judi Dench would be nominated for "Philomena," but the question is "why?" She was fine, but she was Judi Dench being Judi Dench. But Oprah? She was nothing like Oprah. But then again, no one is!
	OOO LA BLAH
	Assumption: French women are thinner, not to mention, better at handling men than American women because French women understand la langue de l'amour. Fact: No.
	Despite rumors to the contrary, more than a third of French women are fat, and drink too much. In vino veritas, baby.
	And Frenchies are really as clueless as American women when it comes to amour with sleazy politicians, too.
	Even as we speak, two good-looking (thin!) French women are on hold as French President Francois Hollande, a guy with the worst dye job since Wayne Newton, decides between them. La langue de stupid, baby.
	The desperate hangers-on are Franc-y boy's longtime live-in girlfriend, Valerie Trierweiler, and side dish, younger actress, Julie Gayet, who is pregnant with Hollande's bébé.
	Nonetheless, Trierweiler is standing by their man — when she's able to stand, that is. She's in the hospital after popping pills upon learning of that low-down, two-franc Franc's affair of state.
	Meantime, this great lover is a troll who looks like the devil spawn of a scary clown and an IRS auditor. Smart women/smarmy choices is an international phenomenon. Allez vous faire voir.
	LAP DANCE
	Two weeks ago, he was America's Governor, en route to becoming America's President.
	Now Chris Christie is just another guy with a lap band trying not to crash-land into obscurity. And this whole thing is over a traffic jam.
	So, let's see: You can start a war based on fake information that kills millions of people and costs a billion a week and you won't get in trouble.
	But tie us up in traffic, and you could spend the rest of eternity in a cell with only a toilet for company.
	Meantime, the bum at the heart of Gov. Christie's woes, David Wildstein, says he'll talk — if he gets immunity. Can somebody give us a reality check here?
	When did we start begging crooks to hold us up?
	His tantilizingly obscene offer doesn't even mean that Wildstein's got the goods on Christie vis-a-vis the scandal. He might be looking to trade info just on his friends in high places.
	Luckily for Hillary, Bridgegate is almost overshadowing Benghazi — well, except on Fox News.
	RELATED: STASI: CHRISTIE WILL GET DONE IN BY THE COVER-UP
	EXPRESS LINES
	Go figure: A new survey found that couples without children are as happy as women with children. (See "Ooo La Blah," left for a possible explanation). ... Master  Johnsons: A Spanish study revealed that rich people have better sex than poor people. You think? Maybe not having three jobs and being exhausted all the time just makes sex that much better.
	POPE A DOPE
	It was just revealed that the mysteriously departed Pope Benedict defrocked 400 — yes, 400 — pedophile priests in two years alone of his reign, er, tenure.
	The major head-chopping didn't begin until after victims starting suing the church en masse, and costing it precious gold.
	So what happened to the 400 monsters in clerical collars who were part of the ages-long institutionalized pedophilia in the Catholic Church? Were they handed over to the civil authorities and thrown in the can where they are rotting for the rest of their lives for the crimes they committed? No, they were quietly defrocked to walk among our kids once more.
	RELATED: STASI: INAUGURATING A NEW ERROR
	HIS BAR BELLE
	Because too much isn't even close to enough for these two, reality show couple Denver Bronco's receiver Eric Decker and pregnant wife country singer Jessie James added a spread for GQ to their, er, body of work. The pix are supposed to be provocative, but the one where he's lifting a barbell over her pregnant belly? Not as much provocative as positively terrifying!
	PHOTOS: ERIC DECKER AND JESSIE JAMES POSE FOR GQ: HOTTEST WIVES  GIRLFRIENDS
	RED CROSSED
	We didn't know about helpless children like 4-year-old Myls Dobson and 3-year-old Tiana Mills, or we would have stepped in to save their lives. Here's a chance to save another child. Four-year-old Nikira Sorokin will die without a bone marrow transplant and his parents in Ukraine cannot afford the $350,000 it will cost. The government there is thumbing their nose at the frantic family. Find out how to help save his life here.