
	Hi, and almost welcome to New York.
	No, this ain't Minneapolis so don't expect anyone to greet you with open arms, care where you came from, have time to chat with you when you're buying coffee, or spend more than 30 seconds helping you pick out something nice for the folks back home.
	Nobody cares what you buy — unless of course, you're laying big money on more than your Super Bowl bet — like an Hermes bag.
	This is New York City (that means FIVE boroughs, not just Manhattan) so don't waste your time in Times Square with all the other confused tourists sitting on those insane risers, which New Yorkers avoid like STDs.
	For the most part we hate the new Times Square. So go there to see it, but don't stay any longer than you need to.
	But one thing to pick up while you're there (it's free!) is "The Five Borough Playbook" at the New York Visitors and Convention Bureau booth, between the outsized Lombardi Trophy and the Super Bowl XLVIII number.
	It's filled with things your mother never told you to do in New York City, which I can't fit into one article (or you can just go to the website NYCGO.com and avoid Times Square altogether).
	Equally important to avoid are the giant furry creatures stalking around Times Square and Rock Center. No, I'm not talking about our infamous rats, I'm talking about the ones that look like friendly Elmos, are unlicensed, pose for pictures with you and then demand you pay up. One Cookie Monster got so ticked at parents who wouldn't pay that he shoved a kid. Don't screw with the fake furry guys. Seriously.
	You should also avoid our costly cabs if you can, and pedicabs b ecause you must (they charge what they want). Do take a corny carriage ride through Central Park though — you can tell your grandchildren about it someday, since the new mayor is determined to get rid of them. So stupid.
	It is just better to walk everywhere, but for God's sake, speed it up. We don't stroll here. Get out of our way or go home.
	Where should you walk (very) fast? Of course, you'll walk to Little Italy, but how about Little India on Lexington Avenue in the 20s — or hopping a train (the subway) to Little India in Jackson Heights, Queens?
	Other neighborhoods you should check out: For music and food, Little Brazil (between Fifth and Sixth Aves.) and Spanish Harlem and El Barrio (which starts at 96th St., east of Fifth Ave.).
	For karaoke and BBQ, make your way to Koreatown (W. 32nd St. between Fifth and Sixth Aves.). For fresh grilled fish, it's the other Greece in Astoria, Queens.
	Then there's the "real" Little Italy at Arthur Avenue in the Bronx, but also be sure to check out what's left of the real Lower East Side for Jewish deli food (Katz's) and knishes (Yonah Shimmel), and discount underwear on Orchard Street.
	Don't forget Harlem, which is so trendy now, you can't afford it, but if you can get into the Red Rooster for dinner (good luck with that pal) or Sunday gospel brunch (Oh my God the mac  greens), run — do not walk — or somebody will get there before you. Not hard to get into any spot in Manhattan's Chinatown, (there are now six Chinatown neighborhoods scattered in the five boroughs) for dim sum Sunday morning, and if you don't mind being shoved and yelled at, do dim su m for sure.
	Take the Staten Island Ferry for fun and get off and eat at every pizza place you can because they are one b etter than the next.
	Finally, whether you're in or out of the closet, for everything gay, it's "Cupcake Alley" (and I'm not talking about the kind with frosting) in Manhattan's Chelsea.
	While in Chelsea, you'll probably want to stroll the High Line. Yes, you can stroll with all your sweet time here. But me? I'd rather walk fast on the Brooklyn Bridge.
	If you do the High Line, make sure to get off and walk through Chelsea Market (W. 15th St. and 9th Ave.). It's the wondrous, cavernous, wholesale/retail food market that even has a clothing shop and a flea market. It's the closest thing you'll find to a souk in New York.
	What? You want to go Eataly because your cousin told you you have to? Well, I'm telling you that you don't.
	Go inst ead to either one of the Little Italys where you can get the same stuff at half the price. Tell your cousin that you took a train to Ferdinando's Foccaceria in Red Hook for panelle (chick pea cakes) and past a con sarde.
	Don't miss the glorious Parkside in Corona, Queens (Friday night is lobster night), either. After dinner you should walk (fast) across the park, where the guys play bocce in every weather, to the Lemon Ice King of Corona. Don't ask to mix ice flavors or you'll get thrown off the line.
	Meeting relatives in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn? They'll probably take you to Elia or Ponte Vecchio.
	My personal favorite joints? Kalustyan's on Lex for thousands of spices, coffees, teas, you name it at a third of the price you'd pay anywhere else; Bukhara Grill, which is the best Indian restaurant in all of New York City (clay oven, not curry), 49th St. between Second and Third Aves.
	For fresh fish and Greek? It's only Elias Corner in Astoria.
	The best Italian? Are you kidding? This is New York City, it's all the best Italian. But the best best Italian in Manhattan? Rao's in East Harlem (you won't get in) and Fresco By Scotto in midtown — use my name and you might get in.
	If you do, you'll have great food, and great views of movie and TV stars at the next table. But for God's sake, don't bother them, all right? They're eating!
	Remember, it's New York City so enjoy yourself!
	But make it quick.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com