
	Too fat. Too short. Too big in the boobs. Just right in the butt.
	At least I had that. A normal butt, I mean.
	And then suddenly, when I'm old enough to die without my obit noting that I was too young to die, I get hit with life's final humiliation — my ass is too small. Well, too small as defined by the Kardashian megabutt.
	Forget my waistline altogether. I'd have to make the decision to live life without ribs (my own and the take-out kind) to get a waistline in real life into the size of Photoshopped Kim Kardashian's 12-inch fake waistline. (Note: Real women don't have giant lines running down our naked torsos.)
	So the thing is, even if we could have starved ourselves into Kate Moss' 1990s heroin-chic look, there's no way we can live with the latest demand — no rib cage.
	The new ideal measurement is 40-12-96. Can't do it. Can't starve into it, can't eat into it. Even Barbie has a bigger waistline and smaller boobs than Kim, in her "break the Internet" cover shoot for Paper magazine. Forget the full frontal shot, what's shocking is the full rear view.
	
	The woman is posing with a champagne glass on her rear when in fact, the entire Duggar family cold sit down to a four-course meal on that rump — with room for extra guests.
	We regular women are lucky if we can balance a shot glass without it falling off.
	Yes, the latest women's ideal shape means looking like you've got a Barcalounger attached to your butt. Once again, I fall, er, short.
	I'm not alone — 99% of the women, on this planet anyway, have always fallen short of the "ideal" because that ideal has always been unattainable; a fake reality created by women's magazines and driven by perverse fashion photographers who created ideal images of women, except these models looked like overgrown pubescent boys. Or gorgeous Martians.
	What's nuts is that we spent our entire lives trying to look like these freaks in clothes we couldn't fit into, much less afford.
	Now, the Kardashians have given us another freakish impossible ideal — the ass the size of Pluto, breasts the size of missile launchers and a waist so small that given the other proportions, you would have to live in zero gravity to keep from falling forward or backward when upright.
	Time we came to the realization that, tragically, real life doesn't come with Photoshop.
	Remember that Geico commercial in which distressed Mary Lincoln asks Honest Abe, "Does this dress make my backside look big?" Abe is stuck for an answer. Now, for the first time in recorded history, there is a correct answer for the impossible question: "Yes! It looks enormous!"
	What becomes a legend least? Going public.
	Take Navy SEAL Robert O'Neill, who claims he went public because he was moved by the 9/11 families at the 9/11 Museum, to bring awareness that soldiers (like him) who leave the service short of their 20 years and don't get a pension, and to use his freedom of speech.
	My cousin was the lieutenant colonel who led the troops into Ground Zero on 9/11, stopping at ammo shops on Queens Blvd. to stock guns for the 200 reserve soldiers he mustered up that morning. He used his credit card and never asked for credit for his service. That's what soldiers do.
	O'Neill broke the SEALs' code of silence, and while we appreciate his efforts as part of a team, he demeaned that honor in exchange for personal fame. Not honorable.
	
	Last week, Mayor De Blasio got trashed by every guest and all media in NYC and beyond for arriving four minutes late for the 9:16 moment of silence to honor the victims of the 2001 American Airlines flight at Rockaway Park. Disrespectful! Disgraceful! Disingenuous!
	Meantime? Not one, count 'em, not one other elected official even came to the 13th anniversary.
	Who? Not Queens Borough President Melinda Katz (she sent a staffer), not City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito, not Senators Kirsten Gillibrand nor Chuck Schumer (who hasn't missed a party or appearance since kindergarten), not Phillip Goldfeder, the assemblyman from that district, not Congressman Gregory Meeks, not District 31 Councilman Donovan Richards. And giving new meaning to no shame, not Councilman Eric Ulrich, who criticized Blaz's lateness in The New York Times. Even he sent a staffer in his place.
	Is Sen. John McCain the only sane voice left in D.C.? Last week, he said, "I would rather see what our progressive and positive agenda is rather than spending all our time trying to block the President."
	On the money, McCain.
	Why do we now elect people who spend their time — and waste ours - fund-raising and scheming to undermine the other party instead of running this country? Imagine if you hired someone who spent the workday begging others for money and undermining the boss? Right. (And left!)
	On Friday, we learned that disgusting, demented, 20-year-old psycho killer T.J. Lane, who killed three students at his high school, managed to escape from Allen Oakwood Correctional Institute with three other deranged cons. They ran through a soybean field and got nailed.
	This is the pig who wore a T-shirt at his sentencing that read "Killer" and told the families of the victims, "F--- all of you!"
	This is the pig we're paying to live on our taxpayer dollars.
	How is it possible that it's not front-page news that a rocket landed on a comet in an impossible only-in-the-movies maneuver? More improbable still: How is it that the European Space Agency accomplished this? I mean ESA, not NASA? Houston, we have a problem.