
	"The Satanic Verses," "The Last Temptation of Christ," "Piss Christ," "Death of the Virgin," "The Death of Klinghoffer," the Danish Muhammed cartoons, "Otello," "Gone with the Wind," "Birth of a Nation," "The Merchant of Venice," "The Passion of the Christ," and yes, "Money for Nothing," everybody's favorite Dire Straits song.
	If "The Death of Klinghoffer" protesters outside the Met are correct, then perhaps all of those other works should also have been censored because each one of them has been condemned for either racism, religious bigotry, anti-Semitism, homophobia, or just for presenting a new, albeit controversial take on an old religion.
	Let's not even get into what art is or isn't because it's subjective, despite the opinion of brilliant, learned art historian Rudy Giuliani who thinks it's close-that-sucker-down cut-and-dry.
	Of course, the Metropolitan Opera protesters have every right to protest, but they also have every right to withdraw their support for Lincoln Center, and shun the controversial work. They are wrong to say it should not be performed, however.
	
	If Shakespeare's racist "Othello" or anti-Semitic "The Merchant of Venice" were put to music by Verdi and Tchaikowsky today, do you think Met patrons would support them? No? But they do.
	"Birth of a Nation," the Klu Klux Klan-loving movie, is still considered one of the greatest films of all time. Ditto "Gone With the Wind," which is sympathetic to the southern view of slavery.
	Another criticism lobbed at "Klinghoffer" is that it isn't true to the events. Really? Then how about "Mississippi Burning," "JFK," "Pearl Harbor" and the worst of them all Disney's "Pocahontas"? The heroes of the civil rights movement weren't a couple of white FBI agents any more than Pocahontas was a grown Indian woman in love with a white man. She was in fact a 10-year-old kid.
	As for it being too soon after the events to turn "Klinghoffer" into a profit-making venture, may I present all those profiteering 9/11 movies? What about the movies about the Iraq war?
	If those movies were any more contemporary, they'd be futuristic.
	No, I don't support bigotry and I'm married to a Jew, but we all sure as hell must have participated in supporting bigotry whenever we laid down cash for those movies, operas and books.
	Were these works controversial for controversy's sake, thought-provoking art or bigotry in artists' garb?
	Art isn't bland happy pictures sold in big-box stores. Art good, bad, and awful is supposed to enrage, encourage, inspire, anger and force conversation.
	Without that freedom, we may as well be living in a fundamentalist religious state. Oh, wait, is that too controversial to say?
	FIRST TAKE OF LAST RESORT
	ESPN's Skip Bayless, of "First Take," thinks that Kobe Bryant's 2004 rape case made him more marketable. "It brought a little attention to him, gave him a little bit of sizzle," Bayless said.
	As disgusting and reprehensible as Bayless' words are, the tragic truth is that he's probably more right than wrong. Do you think that when Oscar Pistorious gets out of the can he won't be even more sought after? Violence against women is a given in male professional sports, and blind-to-the-truth owners and coaches usually only take action in these cases after a victim either goes public or threatens to.
	And really, a nice rape charge can give a guy just the street cred he needs to rape the big sports marketers as well.
	UNHAPPY HOOKER
	Repulsive madam Kristin Davis, who never met a john or a bad plastic surgeon that she didn't like, says the four months she spent in Rikers for pimping out women to the equally repulsive Eliot Spitzer was a nightmare. "The day-in-day-out degradation I experienced in Rikers Island is something you cannot imagine if you haven't been there," Davis wrote. "I got out of Rikers and was a complete mess. I had PTSD, intense panic attacks and insomnia from the solitary confinement."
	Davis even shamelessly said that she had to sit shackled next to male inmates who masturbated and showed her their genitals. Must have felt like home.
	OSCAR COMES UP BIG AGAIN
	It's a damned shame that Oscar Pistorious, who was sentenced to five years for killing his gorgeous, terrified, girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp, has been banned from competing in the Paralympics.
	As luck would have it, that's also for five years. In other words, no running in international events while locked up.
	Sure, it sounds crazy but Pistorious may only have to serve 10 months in prison and then serve the remainder of his time under house arrest.
	Sad, but even the great "Blade Runner" can't compete in international races from the comfort of his living room.
	But at least, unlike Reeva, Oscar has a living room. More to the point, Oscar is still living.
	Like most professionally violent professional athletes, Pistorious is just more equal under the law than the rest of the world.
	EAT YOUR VEGETABLES - OR ELSE!
	People are laughing because Kris Jenner had the audacity (that again) to "write" a cookbook. Wrong. Jenner's kids' ex-nanny says in her new book that Kris was always telling her about food, such as: "I can't believe you forgot the f------ broccoli!" Only a chef and Michelle Obama can get that worked up over broccoli.