
	If Amber Vinson had just had a 16-ounce soda or some salty potato chips in her hand instead of a fever on her brow, she would never have been allowed on that plane.Soda kills. Ebola, eh?
	In case you forgot, the head of the CDC, Dr. Thomas Frieden — who has screwed up and screwed us royally in this Ebola crisis — was Mayor Bloomberg's self-righteous, dictatorial Commissioner of Health and Mental Hygiene before he got this gig.
	Yeah, that's right, he's the large sugary soda, salt, trans-fat and smoking ban guy; the you-aren't-smart-enough -to-think-for-yourselves guy.
	How then did this genius issue Ebola protocols that allowed a woman with a fever who had cared for Thomas Duncan to board a passenger flight?
	Large, sugary soda? Call the cops! Exposed to Ebola, with a 99.5-degree fever? Welcome aboard!
	Worse, instead of taking the hit himself and manning up about the CDC protocols, he said that in hindsight the CDC could have been more hands-on. You think?
	Not that the fear-mongering media is making this crisis any better. No, we do not have an Ebola epidemic here, but an outbreak - and a full-blown panic fueled by the media's need to feed the hungry 24/7 news machines.
	TV news in particular has turned the two cases of Ebola — those related to Duncan — into the equivalent of the black plague in the 14th century.
	Calm down! The United States 2014 is not some tiny West Africa village without fresh water, food, doctors or medicine, for God's sake.
	Meantime, you don't see the usual TV anchors - who can't wait to report from disaster areas in their dashing flak jackets - flying into Ebola-infected villages so fast. Can you blame them? I mean, nobody looks dashing in hazmat.
	Still, boots-on-this ground know-it-all newscasters are creating an environment of fear and full hazmat for everyone else.
	The other day on "Morning Joe" for example, "The View's" Nicolle Wallace actually told a doctor: "I saw the movie 'Outbreak' nearly two decades ago and this is exactly how Ebola spread and became a very dramatic national catastrophe. Why weren't there things in place because you can't say we couldn't imagine this — it was in a Hollywood movie!'"
	So was Godzilla, but we still don't have protocols in place to protect us from giant monsters from Japan knocking down Las Vegas either.
	
	Yes, Ebola is a crisis, but the panic is as fabricated as any other Hollywood monster.
	Tragically, we still don't have protocols in place to stop the epidemic of TV Talking Head syndrome either.
	Sex and the City Slicker: Chris Noth told an interviewer that Sarah Jessica Parker's Carrie Bradshaw character was "such a whore," apparently forgetting that this show was a hit at the turn of this century, not the last one .
	Brand Name Twits: Maybe the Donald should get off Twitter long enough to tend to his empire instead of obsessively tweeting all day. His latest tweet rant was a stream of unconsciousness about Russell Brand's appearance on "The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon." And it would have been valid if Brand had actually appeared on that show. Talk about an apprentice move!
	
	Oh No, Bono! What's the point of living now that Bono announced that he wears sunglasses not because he's cool, but because he has glaucoma? What's next? Will Mick say that the reason he moves like Jagger is because of incontinence?
	First came freeze-dried eggs, then women started freezing their eggs, and now we have Apple and Facebook, the Big Brothers for our time, allegedly encouraging female employees to delay pregnancy by adding coverage for egg-freezing procedures.
	Wait a minute here! Despite all the knee-jerk reactions, the truth is that Facebook offers this coverage not just to the female employees, but also to spouses and domestic partners. They also cover sperm donation, adoption reimbursement expenses and four months paid maternity/paternity leave. Apple is set to start offering similar coverage next year.
	
	Bingo.
	Even though Apple's horrid IOS8 downgrade has totally destroyed my life and foisted upon us miserable masses new slow-as-dancing-dead-men downloads, their fertility benefit isn't a nefarious female entrapment, it's actually an upgrade. One that might work this time.
	On Friday, the Daily News reported that ex-con/killer boyfriend of City Hall's Rachel Noerdlinger, Hassaun McFarlan, told a judge the only reason he gets parking tickets is because he's a black man with a nice car. Just to be clear here? Actually, he's a black man whose girlfriend has a nice car. Anyway, acting as his own lawyer, he added: "Is it evidence into consideration that the police be lying?" Right. Who can fight with that logic?
	
	Two male strippers have put themselves into voluntary quarantine after sitting near Ebola nurse Amber Vinson on the Cleveland-to-Dallas flight. One, Axl Goode, who looks like Axl Rose in his "November Rain" days, says not only did the CDC keep him on hold for 81 minutes, but they didn't call him back for another 40 minutes. Their advice? Ah, none. Your tax dollars at work for you!
	
	Here's better advice: Call the stripper, not the CDC. He's got a valid excuse to do nothing.
	Bruce Jenner took time out from having plastic surgery to look more like a woman to date one. And as a real "screw you" to his ex-wife Kris, the woman he dated is her former assistant/best friend, Rhonda Kamihira. Kris is said to be heartbroken. She was hoping he'd start dating himself.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com Twitter: @lindastasi