
	According to a new national poll, the more educated you are, the less you fear an Ebola outbreak in a major U.S. city, while the less educated, the greater the fear.
	Well that's what the latest Reason-Rupe national poll shows anyway, along with the fact that Tea Partiers fear the coming Ebola apocalypse more than Democrats and Republicans. Interesting.
	So in case you were wondering why your neighborhood preppers have stopped shooting at you when you mistakenly take a run on top of their hideouts, it's because, yes, they are now hiding out.
	And you thought all those grenade family packs and 2,000 single servings of powdered meat they were hoarding were a joke!
	But what are the real facts about Ebola now that it has slipped out of West Africa?
	I spoke with Dr. Joia Mukherjee, chief medical officer for Partners in Health, the international medical charity based in Boston, who has just returned from Liberia.
	She advises that the first thing that needs to be done to stop the disease from crossing borders is to stop criminalizing people with the disease.
	Fear of prosecution will, she says, drive it further underground, causing fewer people to come forward as early as they need to.
	
	Keeping it contained also requires the immediate construction of facilities where the disease is raging. This includes building beds and training locals for employment as health care helpers.
	Those necessities, of course, depend on getting the supplies there in first place. Good, except there are not only not enough roads, but not even enough vehicles.
	PIH is trying to work out deliveries of disease-prevention buckets to each family with essentials like rubber gloves and aprons, disinfectant, soap and water.
	Enter the U.S. and the U.K. While the President is taking heat for the bombings, nobody's hailing the fact that he also committed not just millions in aid, but military personnel to help build roads, structures and beds, as well as getting aid workers what they need where they need it.
	All good, but in our global world, short of stopping all flights in and out of affected areas, which also means medical and military personnel can't get in or out, what can we do on a practical level to protect ourselves and our families?
	Mukherjee says that Ebola spreads in much the same way as the common cold.
	
	"We don't realize how many times a day we touch our faces," she said, "We're always touching our eyes, noses, mouths, so washing with soap and water after all possible exposure is essential."
	And stock up on those 2,000 single servings of powdered meat.
	For help and info, click here.
	Anyway you play it, it's a bad week for the NYPD when more bad cop videos are released than new movies.
	This week, millions saw videos of "Officer knocks teen unconscious with punch over suspicious cigarette," piggybacking with "NYPD cop allegedly took more than $1G in cash from Brooklyn construction worker's pocket during stop-and-frisk" (is that a wad of bills in your pocket or are you just happy to see me?) and photos of cops scooping up the scooter in "Queens man with asthma, pacemaker dies in police custody following chase."
	
	
	Hey, if the government wants cameras everywhere to catch everybody doing everything, the least everybody can do is reciprocate.
	Forget all the fake cop TV shows. Fire the writers and pay kids with cell phones to capture real life in the streets.
	Amanda Bynes was hospitalized on Friday for at least 72 hours, but the involuntary stay can be extended to two weeks. Truly unforgivable, however, is the assault by the paparazzi when she landed at LAX. Their behavior is as disturbing as watching her tragic decent into hell.
	Once upon a time you had to win a giant battle for Britain or have really great sex with the king to become a knight or a dame. Now you just need to be famous. This week, former Mayor Mike Bloomberg and actress Angelina Jolie both made it to Buckingham Palace to pick up their peerage papers. Bloomberg was a great sport because he usually doesn't like to go to homes smaller than his, but made an exception for the queen.
	
	"Seventh Heaven" turned into the Seventh Ring of Hell this week when actor Stephen Collins was outed in audiotapes obtained by TMZ, in which Collins admits to molesting three young girls to his then-wife, actress Faye Grant.
	In a separate email sent to Collins by Grant and also obtained by TMZ, she wrote, "The comment you made just before I gave birth to our daughter when you said you hoped we didn't have a little boy, because 'you just didn't know if you could keep his little penis out of your mouth' was indication enough that you were sick."
	He's not the only sicko, sister.
	Why in hell does a mother stay in a home with a man who uttered that about her child?
	There's blame enough to go around here. You're either part of the prosecution or part of the problem. Too much money, too much fame, too little morality.
	
	A newlywed hubby in Spain got a big little shock when his bride of nine months gave birth to a dwarf.
	Doubting that his bride had lived as Snow White before marriage, he demanded the hospital verify that the child was indeed theirs. And it is. Well it's hers, but not his. Moral of the story? Never have wild sex with a dwarf stripper at your bachelorette party.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com