
	It's crass vs. class in this tale of two weddings. Both took place in Italy, both involved brunette stunners marrying handsome, famous entertainers. Both were loaded with celebrity guests, many changes of clothes and more photographers (OK, paparazzi in this case) than you would find at actual important, world events.
	The difference is that one wedding was a crass, ugly affair with prenup photos of the bride traipsing about Paris in an open jacket sans shirt with her boobs hanging out; the other bride quietly went about her prenup days in Como and Venice in clothes so chic, so beautifully tailored and dignified that if it were possible, Anna Wintour would have cried. All right, that's an exaggeration, Anna Wintour only has one expression: dour, (aka, the many face of Anna Wintour), but still.
	One bride posed with her entourage looking like escaped strippers from the Hustler Club, while the other's looked like they had just taken a break from filming "Roman Holiday."
	One bride, (who had, as of Tuesday, 18,000 Tweets to her name), tweeted out every second of her life leading up to the wedding, while the other bride has zero tweets.
	One bride married a man who tweeted, "I think Twitter was designed specifically with me in mind."
	The other bride married a man who abhors the shamelessness of it all, once telling Esquire in fact, "If you're famous. ... Why on God's green Earth would you be on Twitter?"
	One groom most admires people like Bill Murray, who are mostly unavailable. The other groom most admires people who are so self-important that they not just tweet and Instagram their every thought and move, but prefer to do so while taking naked selfies.
	One couple actually lives part-time in Italy, and goes about without fuss; the other lives in the U.S., but tries to arouse as much publicity and cause as much havoc as possible in both France and Italy. This, mind you, as Italy is still attempting to recover from the worst invasion since WWII the attack by "Jersey Shore" slobs in Florence. One bride shops and takes selfies for a living and is famous for being famous; the other is a human-rights lawyer.
	True, defending human rights in complex cases of international law such as that of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, clerking for Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor and advising Kofi Annan can't compare in importance to showing up at the Givenchy fashion show, baby in hand, dressed in your underwear; however, with any luck, Amal Alamuddin will learn to become as meaningless as that other bride.
	WHITE HOUSE HOPPER
	It was a lunatic with a knife in the East Room - and it took The Washington Post to find out.
	Initially, the White House said the intruder, Iraq vet Omar Gonzalez, barely got in and was unarmed. Close.
	Actually, Gonzalez nearly reached the family's living quarters, was packing a knife and had 800 pounds of ammo and a machete in his car.
	What happened to the beefed-up security after the debacle in 2009 when awful-by-any-standards party-crashers "Real Housewife" Michaele and hubby Tareq Salahi got in?
	Hopefully, Gonzalez's punishment will be as swift and just as the Salahis was: In 2012, he ran for governor of Virginia and she ran away with an '80s rocker.
	Breaking up is hard to do, but breaking in? Not really . . . especially at the White House.
	VILE BOMB SIS REALLY BLOWS IT
	Aliana Tsarnaev, the sibling of the despicable Boston Bombers, (sorry, alleged bombers) was taken into custody Tuesday after allegedly passing near the Harlem home of her husband's ex, whom she stands accused of threatening to, yes, bomb. But her lawyer scoffed, saying Tsarnaev doesn't have "any means." Her bail was a measly $5,000. Justice is blind, but it's also crippled by our system, which allows these dangerous hatemongers to walk free.
	ATTENTION, WALMART SHOPPERS!
	So wait, Walmart thinks that because Tracy Morgan, the much-loved kidney-transplant comedian didn't have his seat belt on, that he's at fault for the injuries he suffered when a Walmart truck crashed into his limo? This, mind you, was a crash that not just left Morgan severely injured, but killed his friend, and left two other passengers injured. Anybody home?
	Either Walmart's lawyers are on drugs, suffering from delusions or are PR fools who don't understand how horrible this sounds to customers.
	Maybe they have convinced Walmart honchos that a jury will put the blame on our hilarious national treasure with the kidney transplant. They just won't convince anyone else.
	Attention, Walmart shoppers: In Aisle 5 - a fresh load of horse manure!
	THREE BREASTS  NO BRAINS
	A Florida man claims he was the tortured sex slave of three-breasted Internet freak, Jasmine Tridevil. Even if she did convince a plastic surgeon to give her an extra breast (and try to convince us to believe it), I'm not convinced that a two-legged man can't outrun a three-breasted woman.
	EXPRESS LINES
	The Carnegie Deli has named a giant sandwich for Yankees great Derek Jeter. And in honor of A-Rod's return, the sleazy sports medicine joint around the corner has named its new juice the A-Roid ... President Obama admits our intelligence (such an oxymoron!) concerning ISIS wasn't up to snuff. Seriously? Were they also surprised that White House alarm had been muted at the request of, yes, the ushers?" Mute the damned thing, will ya?"
	lstasi@nydailynews.com / Twitter @lindastasi