
	While the Tea Party was railing against starving kids who sneak over the border into Texas, a Liberian national carrying deadly Ebola walked right off a plane, past immigration and customs and smack into the heart of Texas.
	That man, Thomas Duncan, is akin to the despicable humans who don't inform their sex partners that they are infected with AIDS.
	Except Duncan is probably worse.
	Ebola can spread to anyone who touches the bodily fluids of an infected person, and no, that doesn't just mean sex or even kissing.
	That means contact through skin breaks or mucous membranes with saliva, mucous, blood, sweat and tears. Shaking hands, getting sneezed on or using the same towel can all be deadly.
	Dozens of people in Texas have been identified as having had possible contact through Duncan.
	This guy knew he had been exposed to Ebola on a major level and still thought it would be a good idea to come visit not just his girlfriend but her (and perhaps his) son in Texas. If he had no concern for the rest of the world, was there no concern for the child?
	He's now being cared for in a Texas hospital on our dime, while his family is quarantined in its Dallas apartment, not allowed to so much as stick their heads out the window. Good, except that the Daily Mail reported that on Wednesday three people walked in and out of that apartment. That's our high-tech way of dealing with it. Don't go out and don't go in — OK?
	Authorities didn't even remove Duncan's sweat-stained linens from that apartment until Friday because, yes, they had a hard time finding anyone who would do it. Dear God. We are a third-world country!
	So Duncan must have done some crazy maneuvers to slip through the airport protections that are in place to protect the rest of the world from Ebola, right?
	Hardly. Despite coming from the heart of the epidemic, he was allowed in since he wasn't running a fever. And he then lied and told authorities he hadn't been exposed — even though he had physically carried a badly infected friend to and from the hospital.
	Seriously, even Ellis Island at the turn of the other century dealt with epidemics more efficiently!
	Now, nada. In fact, in West Africa, if travelers aren't feverish at (I swear!) checkpoints between airport parking lots and boarding gates, and claim they haven't been exposed to Ebola, they're good to go. Wherever they want. And when they arrive, if they say they haven't been exposed, welcome!
	Yes, it is easier to get into Texas with Ebola than to cross the border — without carrying a plague.
	Liberia now says it will prosecute Duncan when he gets back. Sure. You wanna get on a plane with this guy?
	Welcome to the new age!
	PARENTS NEED TO GET CLUE
	There's blame to spare in the case of the most disgusting teacher in recent history, Sean Shaynak. Yes, the school is partially to blame, but why do the parents get a pass?
	How is it possible that a kid gets 10,000 text messages from anyone, let alone a pervert, and only the school, not the parents, are to blame for not noticing?
	A kid is taken to a nude beach by a teacher or comes home drunk and the parents don't demand to know where she's been and with whom?
	As parents, we have to accept 90% responsibility for where our kids are, who they're with and what they're doing at all times.
	Blame the school, sure, but the administrators aren't in your home when your kid is getting texts or coming home drunk.
	WALKING DEAD WITH ME
	No, I don't care that George what's-his-name married someone younger, thinner and taller than me.
	What good will all his good looks do in the coming zombie apocalypse? None, that's what.
	Screw George (well, that's off the table anyway). I have little Daryl.
	In case you are clueless, Daryl Dixon is the hottest living crossbow savior in the coming apocalypse on the best show in TV, "The Walking Dead," which returns next Sunday.
	If you remember screaming at the first episode because you had never seen anyone with guts for a necklace before, it's nothing compared with heads in a trough.
	That's all I'll say, except with Little Daryl by my side, it's all good.
	Sure, he's only a few inches high, but I'm here to say, size does not matter.
	FAKE HOUSEWIVES, REAL TROUBLE
	Andy Cohen, the "brains" behind the most disturbingly sexist franchise in TV history, "The Real Housewives," lost one, but may gain one back. The worst-of-women series lost the missing link, Cro-Magnon Teresa Giudice, and her ape husband, who are heading for the can, but Cohen is allegedly bringing back the ever-revolting Bethenny Frankel. Perfect. She was neither a housewife nor real when she was on the show and she's still neither one. And when she did marry, her husband dressed like he had raided Richard Simmons' closet.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Viva Roma: On Thursday, my friend and NY1 News colleague Roma Torre was back in the newsroom looking more beautiful than ever after a bout with colon cancer. Talk about a good news day ... Hack Attack: JPMorgan Chase let us know that the information of 76 million customers had been hacked, but the bank says it's not so bad because accounts weren't compromised. Your identity, maybe, but your accounts, no. The right relationship isn't everything after all.
	YES AND NO, NO, NO!
	Under new proposed rules, SUNY students will need permission from their sex partners to proceed from one move to another. While it sounds great on paper, the practicalities might strain credibility. Yes, it will stop a decent person from moving on, but since when did rapists - date and otherwise — stop to ask permission?
	LSTASI@NYDAILYNEWS.COM / TWITTER @LINDASTASI