
	You can't bomb the religious beliefs out of people. You can't beat it out of them, rape it out of them, torture it out of them, shoot it out of them or gas it out of them.
	But still we/they/those still try. That which doesn't kill you, makes you stronger.
	Hitler tried to do it, but even after killing millions of innocent humans, he failed.
	The Pope tried by sanctioning the Crusades and the Inquisition — which eliminated 6 million people — in an attempt to wipe out Gnostic Christianity, Judaism and Islam.
	Judaism and Islam continued to grow and flourish as did Gnosticism.
	Baby Bush Jr. and his bosses, Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, along with true believer Condoleezza Rice and weak-kneed Colin Powell, all tried to wipe out radical Islam.
	To that end, we invaded and destroyed Iraq, while leaving alone Saudi Arabia — which produced 15 of 19 radical Muslim 9/11 hijackers. In fact, the final tally was United Arab Emirates (2), Egypt (1), Lebanon (1), Iraq (zero).
	Instead, Bush invited Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah to his Crawford ranch, whereupon he kissed his pal and proceeded to literally stroll hand-in-hand with him.
	Last week, a day before we commemorated the 13th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, President Obama announced the bombing (again) of parts of Iraq as well as parts of Syria.
	This, mind you, from the man who promised to get us out of there and did. Almost. But it was after nearly 12 years of a failed war, the deaths of 4,500 Americans and the wounding of 51,000 more, and the deaths of at least half a million Iraqis (two-thirds of whom were women and children) at a cost to the U.S. taxpayers of about $6 trillion.
	The Bush group destabilized the entire region, helped destabilize the economy of the U.S., and cost every U.S. household $75,000. In the end we won nothing.
	The Bush braintrust took a country under the thumb of a maniacal strongman, which nonetheless had become modernized and was not threatening the U.S., and caused it to revert back to a primitive environment in a destroyed landscape brimming with hatred against the West, and boiling with Islamic extremists hell-bent on destroying everyone who isn't them. (See the Crusades above.)
	President Obama believes we can wipe out ISIS/ISIL/IS (which has had more name changes than P. Diddy) by bombing them out of existence. We can't even keep up with their name changes! Worse, the President who vowed to end the war is using Bush's congressional OK as justification.
	Yes, Bush Jr. and Co. stirred up the hornets' nest, and we keep trying to put the hornets back in. Ain't gonna happen.
	We used to think we could wipe out infections with antibiotics, too. And it worked — for a while. Then superbugs showed up.
	OSCAR IS THE NEW O.J.
	Oscar Pistorius is O.J. with metal legs.
	Both men were accused of killing the gorgeous blond woman in their lives. Nicole Brown Simpson and Reeva Steenkamp even looked bizarrely alike.
	O.J.'s trial riveted the world, cost untold millions and took 11 months. Pistorius' trial riveted the world, cost untold millions and took six months.
	Pistorius claimed he thought it was an intruder in the bathroom. Intruder with a bad stomach?
	O.J. said he wasn't even there.
	In both cases, their dream teams beat the prosecution. In both cases, the state presented sloppy cases.
	O.J. walked free but was never free again. He's now rotting in the prison he avoided the first time around. Pistorius could spend 15 years locked up. Or not. But he will learn, as did O.J., that even a blade runner can't outrun his demons.
	RAY RICE WAS ONCE RAY NICE
	No, he wasn't born that way, and no, he didn't grow up that way.
	Ray Rice. The verdict: Done, finished, the end.
	But Rice's childhood friends know another guy altogether.
	Jade Minto, a friend since middle school in New Rochelle tells a different tale.
	"I love Ray Ray. Here's a guy who lost his biological dad (drive-by shooting) when he was a baby and his (father-figure cousin) when he was about 7 or 8.
	"So he was extremely close to his mother, who worked three jobs. He always wanted to do more, be more to give her a better life. All she did was work, work, work.
	"I don't condone domestic violence in any way," she continued. "There are a lot of teams, including the Ravens, with player scandals. They're just not caught on tape and it doesn't come out."
	Like Adrian Peterson?
	In big-money sports, if it's not recorded, it didn't happen.
	BACKTRACK RUNNING BACKS
	Another day, another running back indicted for domestic violence. O.J., Ray Rice and now Adrian Peterson, Minnesota Vikings Pro Bowler, stands accused of beating his child with a switch.
	But the NFL will get to the bottom of it all. ESPN reported that they picked Robert Mueller, of the WilmerHale law firm, which is thisclose to the NFL, to investigate Rice. Maybe his law partner, Tom Ward, can investigate Peterson. He's clean. He only repped the NFL in the DirecTV deal.
	SON OF A GUN, ZIM GETS ANOTHER BREAK
	By George, do you know who he is? Why it's none other than menace-to-society George Zimmerman, who killed unarmed teen, Trayvon Martin. Last week, in full road rage, Zimmerman threatened to kill another driver, Matthew Apperson. What didn't Zimmerman know? Apperson was licensed to pack, and was. This son of a b----h is one lucky son of a gun. Unfortunately.
	EXPRESS LINES
	A major solar storm hit the earth, yes, on 9/11, creating auroras. To see one, it's advised you get away from light pollution. You'd have a better shot catching a solar flare in your hand ... A 23-year old man dropped dead in a sperm bank in China after masturbating once too often. Meantime, since the one-child rule is still in effect for most couples there, who the hell is buying all that sperm? No, they can't be exporting that in economy sizes to Costco too, can they?
	LSTASI@NYDAILYNEWS.COM / TWITTER @LINDASTASI