
	It's not always the crime that brings you down, but it's always the coverup.
	That's true whether we're talking lying politicians, or lying big league bosses. But still, these too-big-to-fall delusional men all think they are bigger than the truth — even in this day when there are cameras and cellphones on every building and in every hand.
	Nothing can be covered up.
	Not for long.
	The latest in the long line of reportedly repulsive big shots trying to cover up the truth — which usually involves sex, lies and now even video violence — is NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.
	We know now what Goodell probably knew then — that the NFL had that tape of Ray Rice pummeling his then-fiancée, now wife, Janay Palmer, in their possession.
	He of course said he never saw it. And Donald Sterling never made racist comments, either. Yet Goodell refused to learn from Sterling because he was too big to fall.
	On Tuesday, Goodell even told "CBS This Morning" co-host Norah O'Donnell a tale of the tape, that "no one in the NFL, to my knowledge — and I asked that same question, and the answer to that is no."
	He continued, saying, "On multiple occasions, we asked for it. And on multiple occasions, we were told no. When we make a decision, we want to have all the information that's available."
	Right. Except that it now appears that someone at the NFL did see it. Yesterday, The Associated Press broke a story in which an unidentified woman at the NFL is heard on a tape admitting to a law enforcement source that she'd seen it: "You're right. It's terrible."
	You bet it is.
	But did he even send out a memo to the staff asking if anyone had seen it? Did he do due diligence? If he did, we don't know about it because yes, someone at the NFL did see it, according to the AP's source.
	If Goodell hadn't seen it, well, then he's probably the only person involved in a 50-mile radius that missed the big show.
	Aside from the anonymous woman, cops saw it, and ESPN reported that at least three security staffers watched that horrendous video "dozens of times."
	Now Goodell is in as small a box as that elevator where Rice KO'd his fiancée.
	So what's he gonna do now — cover up the coverup?
	What will Goodell say? They have no idea who the mystery woman who spoke from their offices is? Right. Would he even try that?
	Will he continue to believe the fans who have made the NFL so rich are this gullible? Does he believe that we'd believe that this organization that knows everything every minute about every player, didn't know some, say, random receptionist or assistant, opened the package and watched the tape but didn't think to hand it over to her bosses? Good one. Blame the woman again.
	Goodell shouldn't be granted the dignity of resigning to spend more time with his family or whatever bull crap these masters of the universe say when they are brought down. His ass should be fired immediately. And as publicly as possible. No dignity, no forgiveness.
	And Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti, who on Tuesday released the same kind of damage-controlling, drink-the-Kool-Aid carefully worded statement should be not be allowed to continue either.
	Bisciotti should be sent to the same personal hell now inhabited by Donald Sterling and Bruce Levenson. If you allow domestic violence, or for that matter any violence, to continue in your organization, you should not be allowed to continue yourself.
	Too bad these guys get richer when they sell, but for them it's really about the power, more than the money or the game. Literally. But still? Most of them think they're too big to fall. Or get caught.
	Detroit Lions safety Bennie Blades once actually said out loud, "It's going to be a lot harder for us to get out of trouble now. Three years ago, you smacked a girl around and people maybe said she asked for it. Now whether she asked for it or not, they're going to haul you off."
	Unless they don't. Like the Italians say, "Fish stinks from the top."
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? SEE THE VIDEO HERE.