
	It took a video of Ray Rice beating the crap out of Janay Palmer for the Baltimore Ravens and the NFL to finally kick Rice out. Too bad Janay Palmer didn't do the same. Instead she married him.
	And now every talking head on every talk show is crying for Janay and raging at the Ravens and the NFL. It's amazing that there haven't been injuries from all those involuntary knee-jerk reactions.
	Meantime, Janay Palmer has gone public to cry and rage, too. No, not about herself, nor the brutality of her strongman husband, nor even about the lack of immediate action by the NFL. She's angry at the media for trying to wreck her love and marriage.
	Who knew that being deeply loved literally required a knockout, drag-out from a brute of a professional athlete? Who knew it would take a woman, smaller than her man, to stand up for him, if not to him? Palmer doesn't want our help, so maybe we should back the hell off.
	Yes, she is a classic victim of battered-spouse syndrome, but is she also a victim of celebrity wife syndrome? Hopefully not, because no woman needs a man that badly.
	Palmer Instagrammed, "If your intentions were to hurt us, embarrass us, make us feel alone, take all happiness away, you've succeeded. . . . Just know we will continue to grow  show the world what real love is!"
	And still everyone is blaming the team and the NFL for not acting swiftly enough. She never pressed charges against the brute — she married him two weeks after the beating and one day after he was indicted for it, pushing their planned wedding up by two months. This is not the same as staying in an abusive relationship. This is committing to be in one.
	The marriage also made her eligible to claim spousal privileges against testifying against a spouse, leaving the prosecution little choice but to send him to counseling. They should have sent her too. She needs it just as badly.
	No, this is not a blame-the-victim stance, it's a realistic stance. The NFL wasn't going to really punish him when the court didn't do it, and his wife didn't want it. Ravens and NFL honchos must have hashed it out with Rice and Palmer after the incident and indictment.
	Football is huge business, yes, but the real bottom line? Any man who beats a woman needs to be in jail, period. Michael Vick went to jail for cruelty to animals, and Rice walks? Wrong.
	And any woman who stands by her bum needs to learn to kick him to the curb before he kicks her unconscious.
	Now, let the Rices figure out their lives by themselves. They sure have plenty of time — unless he assaults her or somebody else first.
	MILEY IS RASH-Y  TRASHY
	This week Miley Cyrus shocked no one when she showed up at an Alexander Wang party in pasties and a rash. Well, it wasn't a real rash, just glitter made to look like one because nothing says "fabulous" like scabies.
	Wednesday, a display of her "artwork" will debut at Jeremy Scott's fashion show, including a vibrator with a joint attached and a 5-foot-long bong.
	Why? Because nothing says "fashion" like a vibrating joint. (There is no way that could have come out sounding clean.)
	Miley described her art to V magazine saying, "I had a bunch of f---ing junk and s---," she said "and so instead of letting it be junk and s---, I turned it into something that made me happy." So articulate.
	OH, 'BOY,' J.LO WANTS TO BE ALONE
	Just as the gorgeous Jennifer Lopez was telling Meredith Vieira on her new talk show that she needs to be on her own right now after a lifetime of back-to-back relationships, a trailer hit for her upcoming movie, "The Boy Next Door," in which she plays a married school teacher fooling around with a student. That's also not a good choice, ladies.
	In other movie celeb news, "Sons of Anarchy" star Charlie Hunnam told Moviefone that he's beating himself up for backing out of "Fifty Shades of Grey." Hey, instead of beating himself up, he could have beaten up Dakota Johnson.
	9/11 VICTIMS ARE NOT A TOURIST ATTRACTION
	As a new display of the shirt worn by of one of the SEALs who took down Osama Bin Laden was unveiled at the 9/11 Museum, time was running out on the Zadroga Compensation Act, which covers medical treatment and compensation to victims.
	How is it that the museum, which costs $60 million a year to run, $700 million to build and charges $24 admission, is up and running and yet our legislators have to beg Congress to extend compensation for the living victims of 9/11?
	KAREEM'S SHOT IS ON TARGET
	Kareem Abdul-Jabbar just proved he's the ballsiest b-baller to ever play the game after dissecting the "voluntary" decision by Bruce Leveson to sell the Atlanta Hawks because of what was deemed a racially insensitive email.
	Abdul-Jabbar took the punch out of PC by writing in Time what everybody was thinking but too afraid to say aloud. "If his arena was filled mostly with whites," he wrote, "and he wanted to attract blacks, wouldn't he be asking how they could de-emphasize white culture and bias toward white contestants and cheerleaders? Don't you think every corporation in America that is trying to attract a more diverse customer base is discussing how to feature more blacks or Asians or Latinos in their TV ads?"
	Exactly. But now it's even racist to diversify.
	LEAVING OUT THE GORE
	Earlier this week, The New York Times did a terrific article on the links between Qatar, billionaire Islamist militant fund-raisers and Al Jazeera. Missing from the article, though? No mention of Al Jazeera Al, aka Al Gore, who disgracefully sold his liberal Current network to Al Jazeera, netting $100 million for himself.