
	Joan Rivers wasn't just the funniest woman on the planet, she was also the meanest. That made her the first- and second-funniest woman on the planet.
	She was also the kindest and, believe it or not, the most sensitive. And I loved her. Plus, anyone who hated the Kardashians as much as Joan did should live forever. It's only right.
	But knowing Joan, it's clear that instead of crying, we should be laughing our asses off in her memory. Because if there's one thing Joan loved more than a good face lift, it was a good roast.
	I'm proud to say that Joan liked me. In fact, she'd send me beautiful orchids from time to time. Sure, they were moderately priced two-stemmers, not the expensive three-stemmers, but still. I said she liked me; I never said she loved me.
	At a recent party she was looking at me the way women ogle each other when they are assessing whether the other has had any work done. I jumped in before she could ask and said, "Nope. No work done!" and ran away before I got paper cuts from all the business cards of plastic surgeons she was about to start throwing at me.
	Another time she asked if I was going to marry my longtime boyfriend. When I didn't answer, she motioned to her one-legged boyfriend and matter-of-factly said, "Some advice? Hurry up."
	Joan had an issue with overweight people. In fact, she disliked them so much she tried to get HBO charged with crimes against humanity for letting Lena Dunham get so naked so often.
	Still, Dunham tweeted her sorrow when Joan was taken to the hospital, saying how honored she'd been to be skewered by her. That alone should have been enough to make Joan wake up just to tell her to shut her fat mouth. It wasn't an honor. She really didn't like her.
	Oh, Joan, so many obese people, so little time.
	Joan herself was so thin that she'd go to McDonald's just to watch the sign change to fewer burgers served. In fact, she once asked me if her tampon made her look fat.
	Joan mourned Elizabeth Taylor's passing because for one thing, she couldn't make fat jokes about her any longer. She said Taylor was so obese, she put mayonnaise on aspirin. True, but Joan was so skinny she put Sweet'n Low on diet pills.
	Just because Joan made fun of the weight-challenged, it didn't make her a bigot. She made fun of everyone . . . white, black and anyone pretentious enough to think they were more important than anyone else.
	After President Obama's first inauguration, she moaned, "If I want to see millions of smiling black people, I'll set up a camera in the hallway outside Kim Kardashian's bedroom!" But when she tried, she was nearly trampled to death by cameramen who were already there.
	Joan knew more than most women about sex — she knew that the man goes on the top, which is why she and Edgar had bunk beds.
	Joan always joked that her body should be donated to Tupperware so they could recycle the plastic.
	Damn, Joan, you'll be missed. You liked to say, "I succeeded by saying what everyone else is thinking."
	No, Joan. You succeeded by saying what everyone else was thinking, but not ballsy enough to say out loud. Who else could say those things and still be among the most beloved people on earth? Oh, right. Just you.
	Rest in peace, my friend. And, oh, thanks for the laughs.
	On a mobile device? Click here to watch video.