
	With beloved Joan Rivers still on life-support, the question remains whether her daughter, Melissa, will have to eventually face the decision to end the life of the woman who gave her life.
	And that is the worst decision any child would ever have to make.
	I know this because I had to face that same decision with my own mother, who also "died" but was brought back to a vegetative state because of a medical screwup. Yet I was the one made to feel like a murderer.
	But since I'm not a star, I could grieve and rage in private. Melissa can't. The whole world is watching, and no matter what decision she may eventually have to make, the haters will come after her.
	Here's what happened to my family. One morning, I popped over to my mother's for a cup of coffee, but instead found her comatose from a stroke on the bathroom floor.
	She was rushed to NYU Hospital and put in a medically induced coma for a week but emerged paralyzed and unable to speak. My heart was torn out.
	When she had recovered enough, she was moved to another hospital for rehab. A week later, a cocky doctor called to tell me, "Your mother had an incident in the middle of the night." What is an "incident," exactly? A heart attack that caused her to "die."
	But, he announced happily, they had brought her back. Now, she was brain-dead. They did this despite the large "DNR" (do not resuscitate) order hanging at the foot of her bed.
	That was exactly the opposite of what she ever wanted. "I don't want to end up like a wilted lettuce," she would say. She even had a living will that stipulated just that.
	Try telling the doctors who "saved" your mother that they had no right to do it and that you want them to disconnect the tubes. One actually told me I would be killing her slowly and she would starve to death. I threw up right there.
	After my brother — who had just returned to California — and I threatened them with a lawsuit, they unhooked her. Mom was put in a sun-filled corner room, where her sister and nieces — older women who know better than doctors how to let someone die — held her hand and told her things.
	After two agonizing weeks, Mom and I were alone when the monitors started going wild. I took her hand and told her, "It's OK, Mom. I'm OK. Nobody's having any fun — and it's time you had some again. I love you."
	Somehow, her eyes opened — I believe to let me know it was indeed OK. Then she closed them for good.
	Hopefully, Melissa won't ever face that. But either way, haters, just back the hell off. This one's between Melissa and Joan.
	ZERO TO NAKED IN 60 SECONDS
	The creepy perverts who crawl around old-school message boards like 4chan, watching hacked sex videos and pictures of Kate Upton, Jennifer Lawrence and others, should be hunted down like rabid dogs and arrested with their blowup doll girlfriends.
	But where's the public outrage about the huge implications for the rest of us who store everything, including financial info on iCloud? We could all be left holding less than Kate Upton's bikini.
	Notice who didn't get hacked? Kim Kardashian. Kim must be pulling her extensions out that she didn't make the hacking A-list and that her privacy wasn't also invaded. Maybe she can "leak" another sex video. Tragic, really. A Kardashian not getting hacked naked with the best of them is a definite sign of — what? — overexposure? Impossible.
	WHOOPI ON WEED
	Whoopi Goldberg complained on The Cannabist website that New York's medical marijuana laws don't help those who want to smoke it, not eat it or vaporize it.
	If some apartment buildings restrict people from smoking tobacco because of secondhand smoke and smell, why is it OK to smoke pot, especially in buildings with kids? Whoopi must be high if she hasn't thought of that. Rule: If your hall stinks and your baby starts to call you "dude," your neighbor might be suffering from PMS.
	THEY'RE ALL PLANE CRAZY
	Another plane was diverted Monday after another passenger went berserkers because of a reclined seat. Between fights, tank tops and not shutting down phones, flying is as pleasant as hanging with ISIS.
	Last week, I sat next to a guy who stunk so bad they could smell it on the ground. He didn't need a weapon, he killed half of us off just by coming aboard. Passengers are fighting only over reclined seats? Can you imagine if they allow cell-phone use?
	ENOUGH'S ENOUGH, BAD GUYS
	The animals of the Islamic State have now beheaded a second American. The White House sent prayers and said they had been watching the situation very closely. Watching what? The hideous video?
	In Russia, meanwhile, Putin's mouthpiece has threatened to nuke the U.S., and Vlad (The Impaler) Putin declared that Moscow could take Kiev in two weeks if it wished. The President must be busy drawing another line.
	How is it that in these deadly pissing matches, we can't even find the toilet? How is it possible that President Obama can't put down a bunch of 13th-century thugs and he won't coalesce all the other superpowers to put an end to Putin's insanity? Is golf really more important than the world he's charged with protecting? Answer: Let me be clear.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Angelina Jolie had her kids' drawings sewn into her wedding gown. It beats sending it to the cleaners because they got marker all over it. . . . Justin Bieber got arrested for reckless driving and assault while on vacation with Selena Gomez. His lawyer said his peaceful vacation was disrupted by paparazzi. This guy would cause a war at a yoga retreat.
	On a mobile device? Click here to watch video.