
	If "Orange is The New Black," then TV is the new movies.
	Oscar winners are flocking to TV like the second coming, and for them it is.
	The stories are better ("Walking Dead"), the plots more riveting ("Boardwalk Empire") and the acting is so so so much better ("Ray Donovan") than the same old pyrotechnics in the same dopey movies that it's changed the entertainment industry.
	And with TV we get years to love/hate the characters. Take the hateful Nucky (Steve Buscemi) and crew of HBO's "Boardwalk Empire," for starters.
	Last week HBO signaled the beginning of the end of Atlantic City's Nucky with the premiere of the first episode of the last season at the Ziegfeld theater. The after-party party must have cost roughly as much as Atlantic City lost this year.
	All the stars that cost even more showed up, including Steve Buscemi, Kelly Macdonald, Gretchen Mol and yes, a new guy with the best name of the year: Giampiero Judica, which beats last year's best name from a different series, Diego Klatenhoff.
	In case you've been in Cuba or somewhere and haven't watched, it's a series about a 1920s gangster named Nucky, who gets a lotta nookie because he's no dumb cookie.
	Anyway, as the series draws to a close, Nucky's in Cuba, having flashbacks about why the Nuck is such a, er, fill in the blank.
	Yup, he was abused as a kid.
	The after-party at Cipriani 42nd St. used actual parts of the "Boardwalk" set, which guests stood in and then got shot. No, not by G-men with choppers, but by shooters with cameras.
	Then on Thursday night, Showtime premiered the series opener of "Homeland" at a private screening at, I swear, the Public Theater.
	Turns out that Carrie (Claire Danes) was bored with the station chief gig in Turkey and is back in Pakistan, where they screw up royally, and no that's not a hint.
	I asked Showtime Networks President David Nevins the question we've all been wondering: Was now-dead Brody based on once-presumed dead deserter Bowe Bergdahl who, like Brody, turned up beaten and bruised but suspiciously OK.
	"No," he said, adding that nobody even knew about Bergdahl when they invented Brody and that it was just a lucky (well, for Bowe, not for Brody) coincidence.
	You'll be happy to know that Carrie came back from the war to attend the party as did Peter (Rupert Friend), but most thrilling was that yes, Saul (Mandy Patinkin) was there too. But how could savvy Saul not attend? He now lives in New York City with his cheating wife working a boring staff job for a corporate security firm. The only way to save Saul is to put him back in harm's way.
	There were no parties for another returning massive fan fave, "Walking Dead," unfortunately.
	What would they serve at such a party anyway? Arms?
	So yes, there are questions still to be answered: Will Daryl finally put his crossbow down long enough to nail Carol, will little Carl still be the same age again this year, and will Carol's chemo-hair still be an inch long after all these years? Finally, did a walker escape from Atlanta and end up at Fashion Week?
	MARCHIN' FOR THE GREEN
	What's wrong with this sentence?
	The decision to let the LGBT community march in the St. Pat's Parade is a great step forward.
	Answer: Everything.
	How forward-thinking is it to allow one group to march — especially when that one group happens to belong to NBC, which broadcasts the parade?
	Yes, in all the back-patting, only the Empire State Pride Agenda has been ballsy enough to disagree.
	So why are the LGBT folks at NBC more entitled than any other LGBT group, when it doesn't even have an Irish affiliation?
	Because it's easy being green, that's why.
	This "token Negro" gesture circa 2015 will placate advertisers and bring back the bucks they lost when advertisers pulled out.
	St. Patrick drove out the snakes, and the organizers drove out advertisers, and they're all acting like a bunch of reptiles.
	BIG SINS OF THE FAT CAT
	Bernie Madoff has killed off his second son. Andrew died of cancer last week, blaming his father for their fates. He'd earlier said the scandal led to his brother Mark's suicide and caused his own cancer to reignite.
	In typical Madoff fashion, neither ever accepted any blame for the disgusting family scam that nearly wrecked the entire economy of the United States for their own greed.
	While neither was charged, both sons were identified by prosecutors in July as co-conspirators.
	In 2010, the astoundingly self-involved Mark hanged himself in his apartment while he was alone with his 2-year old son. Yes, while his wife was out of town, he unconscionably schemed to leave his child alone with his dead body.
	But even at the end, it's still all about them. Who cares about the thousands of other ruined lives?
	KISS YOUR CLASS GOODBYE
	Julian Bhart, the 27-year-old son of bazillionaire Stan Bharti, just paid $81,000 to kiss 49-year old Elizabeth Hurley at a charity event.
	In 1995, Hurley's boyfriend, Hugh Grant, who didn't think she was woman enough for him, paid Hollywood hooker Divine Brown $60 for a pop in the front seat of his BMW.
	Marilyn Monroe once said, "[In] Hollywood ... they'll pay you a thousand dollars for a kiss and fifty cents for your soul."
	Kisses have inflated 80 times since the '50s, but souls still go for half a buck.
	FASHION WEEK VS. FASHION VICTIM
	Kim Kardashian took time out from posing naked and taking selfies to go out looking like "When Mermaids Go Bad."
	The see-thru chainmail skirt over a black leather bathing suit did fit like her a glove though — the same glove that didn't fit O.J. either.
	Meantime, a version of the bad mermaid dress did have a covered-up counterpart at Fashion Week: "When Devious Maids Go Mad."
	THESE DUDS ARE THUDS
	Fashion Week once again brings up the question: How do these designers actually make a buck? They make clothes that no one can afford, and that no one over 86 pounds can wear — except the celebrities who get them for free.