
	To paraphrase James Carville: It's the perception, stupid!
	It wasn't just that President Obama didn't cancel his vacation when he began Iraq War Redux. It wasn't even that he didn't cut that same vacation short after the beheading of James Foley.
	It was how he and his handlers handled it all. I mean, who in his thinking mind gives a speech about the horror of beheading and immediately runs off to play golf and yuk up on the golf course? Oh, right. Bam does.
	
	It was typical of how the White House handlers handle everything including the things for which the U.S. should be lauded. Instead we always end up looking hapless and heartless.
	Remember, we are the country that took the initiative and stepped up to the plate militarily to save the thousands of trapped Yazidis facing a religious holocaust by the savages of the Islamic State. We're the ones who saved countless Yazidi women and girls from being captured, raped and thrown back like garbage on the street.
	The world didn't care what we did because we didn't know how to even applaud ourselves.
	Last week as Obama was being excoriated by the press for not canceling his vacation, British Prime Minister David Cameron was being treated like a hero. Why? Simply because he returned from his vacation. Of course, Cameron had to come back! The disgusting savage who cut Foley's head off is apparently a Brit! It's called damage control, something Obama's staff has yet to grasp.
	
	And yes, Cameron went right back to vacationing 19 hours later.
	Obama, meantime, looked like a disengaged, golf-playing CEO who is counting the days until his golden parachute opens.
	Truth is, Presidents do vacation during times of crisis.
	Dubya spent one full year of his eight troubled years on vacation, but his image maker, Karl Rove didn't. He let it be known that he and W competed to see who read the most books. When? Between shooting doves? In his case it was the perception of being stupid.
	The current administration is so hapless they couldn't even turn the killing of the greatest enemy the U.S. has ever had — Osama Bin Laden — into a victory! Somehow it turned into a late-night comedy bit. Hey! Did you hear the one about the old guy watching porn who got nailed by a SEAL? President Reagan, on the other hand, was a genius at political spin, as was President Eisenhower. Ike once returned from vacation during a crisis saying the decision was so important it had to be announced from the house of Lincoln, Jackson and Wilson.
	Ike, who spent a good part of his tenure on the golf course, also said, "The White House office is wherever the President may happen to be."
	It's the perception, smarty.
	RIGHT AND WONG
	
	The world's whitest man, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, either needs a new joke writer, a course in cultural sensitivity or both. Oh, let's make it both.
	At a luncheon in Vegas for the Asian Chamber of Commerce, Reid — sounding like the love child of the bigot Nevada senator in "The Godfather" — opened with, "I don't think you're smarter than anybody else, but you've convinced a lot of us you are." Too bad the same can't be said for Reid, one of the most powerful men, God help us, in America.
	It got worse. He then grabbed the mic from another guy at the podium, and boomed, "One problem I've had today is keeping my Wongs straight." Two wrongs don't make it right.
	TRIVAGO GO GO
	
	In what could possibly be the worst corporate decision since letting a disheveled mess, the Trivago Guy, pitch travel in the first place, the German company announced a contest for fans to, God forbid, give him a makeover. Why? The messy, long-torsoed, middle-aged man who looks like he's coming off a big drunk has created a fan frenzy. Do not let them change you, Trivago Guy. Take one of those cheap trips you're always pitching and get the hell outta Berlin.
	EXPRESS LINES
	
	Loose Cannon: Nick Cannon and Mariah Carey are no longer one. They're living as two. Maybe it's because Cannon has taken to wearing outfits on "America's Got Talent" that make Mariah look demure and tasteful ... Flaw-More: Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said the mission to rescue James Foley was a "flawless operation." And it was, except that they showed up at the wrong address and it failed miserably. Saving deserter Bowe Bergdahl was the flawless one ... In the Pitts: The National Enquirer reported that Brad Pitt became enraged after finding out that Angelina Jolie had partied with child perv/model Dean Kelly after winning her Oscar in 2000. Shocked? Was this before or after announcing she was in love with her brother and kissing him like she now kisses Pitt?
	SHE DIDN'T BARE IN MIND
	
	Don't you hate it when you go on a naked reality TV show, wrestle without a stitch and the network doesn't blur your nasty bits? So does 28-year-old "Dating Naked" contestant, Jessie Nizewitz, who is suing VH1 for $10 million for airing her crotch on TV. "Obviously, I did not expect the world to see my private parts," she said. Obviously. Is that Nizewitz or nitwit?
	BUTT CAUGHT IN WEB
	
	If you combined the DNA of Nicki Minaj and Kim Kardashian who would you get? No, not a relentlessly self-promoting, incredibly annoying person whose much-gloried butt can comfortably hold dinner for eight. You would get Spider-Woman, and a lot of fans are unhappy. Italian erotica artist Milo Manara's upcoming "alternative" cover has Ms. Spidey posing like a sexed-up porn star, butt in the air. Puleeze. Spider-Woman always poses like a half-a-hooker superhero. How many webbed women look this good at 37?
	lstasi@nydailynews.com / TWITTER @LINDASTASI