
	Last week at or around the same time it was announced that a Russian gang had hacked 1.2 billion user names and passwords, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev was announcing, "We hoped until the very last that our foreign colleagues would realize that sanctions are a dead end and that nobody needs them."
	Then he promptly announced that Russia would impose sanctions.
	Obviously on orders of Vlad the Impaler, Medvedev said Russia would ban imports of beef, pork, fruit, vegetables and dairy products from the United States, the European Union, Canada, Australia and Norway for one year.
	
	At least he didn't ban luxury goods. Putin is too smart to deprive the former pinkos of their Pradas. Pork chops, OK, but premium leather goods? Even Putin couldn't handle another Russian Revolution.
	Let them eat khachapuri!
	Maybe the Russian cybergang that stole over 1 billion user name and password combos (there are only 7.046 billion people in the whole world!) will use our hacked credit card info to order up all those banned goodies.
	
	Does FreshDirect deliver to Novosibirsk? No? What about Yekaterinburg? Moscow, at least?
	Can you imagine that phone call from AmEx asking if you ordered 16,000,000 dozen boxes of frozen burgers and 400,000,000 porkchops? "Hey honey, did you order from FreshDirect without asking me first?"
	Meantime, the supposedly successful attack on the infrastructure of the Internet by a bunch of Russian thugs is akin to attacking the U.S., Europe and all other affected countries at once. And this, while doing it on the cheap with access to billions in goods and services. That's a move worthy of Putin in his KGB days — if they'd had the Internet back then, that is.
	
	Maybe world leaders will take this attack a lot more seriously than they have taken the Russian attack on Ukraine or even the attack on Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, since the outrage about it seems to have disappeared as quickly and as mysteriously as Malaysia Flight 370.
	Why aren't the U.S. and Europe demanding the immediate arrest of pro-Russian Ukrainian rebel commander Igor Strelkov? The guy took credit for bringing down the passenger plane 35 minutes after it was shot down! Worse, he did it shortly after the rebels received a delivery of the equipment necessary to shoot it down. The world united to aid in the search for Flight 370 in March, and yet it's as though the deaths of 283 innocent and valuable lives on Flight 17 last month are of no importance.
	Why? Because the biggest international companies are all involved with Russia, that's why.
	Putin could threaten us with nukes at this point and all we'd do is ban blinis.
	
	EMPTY SUIT AND BAG LADY
	Oh, the tragedies that befall the rich.
	Manhattan gyno Dr. Tara Allmen is suing Hamptons store owner Tisha Collette for $50,000 for selling her a fake Birkin bag.
	Thing is, Allmen sported that Birkin for eight glorious years without knowing that she should have been suffering from humiliation.
	Thank God, Allmen's lawyer, Joseph Vitulli, understands the doctor's suffering. "It's terrible behavior," he told the Daily News' Barbara Ross. "No one would spend $3,500 on a completely fake bag that you could buy on the street in Chinatown for $50."
	No, actually no one would spend $50 in Chinatown for a knockoff, when you can get it for $25.
	The world is in chaos, people are dying and starving and the gyno is suffering from Birkin bag deprivation?
	If she wins, it might pay out enough to buy a real matte crocodile Birkin bag. Oh, wait, no. Those purses go for $120,000. I swear.
	
	THE NEW VIEW IS A GLAM SHAME
	"The View" is set to repeat mistakes of the past.
	ABC is about to replace disastrous Playboy model Jenny McCarthy with October Gonzalez, the glamour wife of former NFL tight end Tony Gonzalez . That's just too much glam too early in the day. The new Elisabeth Hasselbeck will probably be liberal Republican Nicolle Wallace. Hasselbeck was such a die-hard conservative against all the liberals on the panel that she was the lit fuse that made for great TV.
	You know they want Rosie O'Donnell back, if she'll behave herself this time. Let her be. Women want smart talk that can turn contentious and wild when it's supposed to.
	Instead, "The View" from here is beginning to stink of "Play nice, ladies."
	NRA'S DAFFY DUCK BLIND
	Despite what you may think, the NRA doesn't discriminate.
	Last week, NRA contributor Dom Raso declared that the law discriminates against blind people. They should, he said, be allowed to carry guns in public.
	Why? Because the blind have increased hearing and other senses, he ranted. Too bad the sighted Raso doesn't have the sense he was born with.
	And you thought NRA coverboy Wayne LaPierre was a loony?
	
	FAA SAYS, 'NO, NO'
	The FAA on Friday banned U.S. airlines from flying through Iraq airspace for safety reasons. Mike Bloomberg did not, however, attempt to hop a Qatar Airways flight to Baghdad to show his support for the Iraqi people and prove that he again knows more than the FAA.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Radar Online says Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are no longer talking wedding. Thing is, if this woman got married as many times as she has supposedly been pregnant, she would have had 100 kids and 700 weddings ... The selfie is a vehicle for the massively self-involved to get the masses involved in their massive self-involvement ... Publicist Sy Preston called to announce that the U.S. government is issuing a new $3 bill — with Al Sharpton's picture on it.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com 
	Follow her on Twitter: @lindastasi