
	Al Sharpton, who is about as believable as "Sharknado" (parts one and two), now has the fake credentials to go along with his fake leadership role because the cops have made a fake ID with him as the NYPD Commissioner. This, after he humiliated the real police commissioner last week.
	Thing is, the cops should stop giving Sharpton reason to show up, but they don't.
	Tuesday, they gave him another reason to stage a protest. A Daily News exclusive revealed a complaint filed by an FDNY EMT and backed up by a second EMT alleging that on July 20, in a stationhouse yet, the FDNY employees had to pull off four cops who were beating a handcuffed and shackled mental patient, hauling him off the stretcher, after the deranged man cursed and spit at them.
	But in truth, every year the settlements paid to victims in police actions are steadily climbing at an alarming rate. Yes, of course, they could have taken years to wend their way through the system, but regardless, the settlements nearly doubled from 2008 when $34.6 million was paid out until 2012 when $64.4 million was laid on victims. That's a lot of police misconduct.
	To further aggravate the already volatile situation, Pat Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, held a press conference Tuesday to declare the Medical Examiner's conclusions on the death of Eric Garner, who'd been put in a chokehold by Officer Daniel Pantaleo, were "absolutely wrong."
	No, he's not a doctor himself, but Lynch did declare, "It is not a chokehold. It was bringing a person to the ground the way we're trained to do to place him under arrest."
	What about the "I can't breathe!" pleas that went unheeded? No, he didn't bring that up.
	Mayor de Blasio and NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton need to get a handle on the cops and deal correctly with the disgruntled citizens before this boils over into the summer of everybody's discontent.
	Black citizens are enraged at being targeted, and cops are enraged that they feel being targeted by the press and the pols.
	Meantime, cops aren't doing themselves a favor by spewing all their hatred on the website, The Rant.
	"F- EMS. They want to go to war with us? They can f-themselves when they call their 13s for police assistance," says one.
	Just what we need, THE FDNY and the NYPD at war with each other. Sharpton won't have anybody to defend if this keeps up.
	BIG-TIME BRAWLING IN BAGHDAD
	Luis Suarez. Mike Tyson. Arwa Damon?
	Who? Damon, the biter of Baghdad, that's who, the tough-ass reporter who happens to also be CNN's award-winning war correspondent and the granddaughter of an assassinated Syrian prime minister.
	Arwa got so drunk at the U.S. embassy in Baghdad (where else can a girl get a drink in Baghdad these days?) that she took a bite out of two EMTs when they tried to subdue her.
	So the two men are suing. Excuse me, but shouldn't they be more worried about bloodthirsty jihadists than getting bitten by a drunken blonde?
	Can you imagine Hemingway and his war correspondent, brawler of a lover/wife, Martha Gellhorn, getting sued for bar brawling?
	Seriously? For Whom The Bell Doesn't Toll.
	THE GERMAN LUFT-GAFFE
	Don't you hate it when a member of the House Committee for Veteran Affairs sends out a promotional flyer — at taxpayers' expense — featuring a sailor wearing the German Luftwaffe insignia on her fake U.S. Navy uniform? I do.
	Congresswoman Julia Brownley whose motto is, "Reaching Across the Aisle," apparently reached all the way to the German Third Reich. (OK, the insignia's been updated minus the swastika since WWII, but still.)
	Tough to get that wrong — especially since Naval Base Ventura County is in Brownley's California district.
	FIFTY SHADES OF GREEN
	What Mark Green knows about backdoor politics and political backstabbing could fill a book — and it is. The former mayoral candidate told me he's just signed with MacMillan to write a "memoir-cum-manifesto" about everything from working for Ralph Nader to the campaigns he's run against Bloomberg, Andrew Cuomo, and de Blasio.
	Golden nugget: "On election night Nov 5, 2001, I called Bloomberg near midnight," he writes. "'Well Mike, congratulations. You're a political Al Kaline, winning the batting crown in your rookie year!' His only response was a curt, 'When will you be conceding?'(a hint of his governing style to come). "They weren't kidding when they say, 'it's not easy being Green.'" No, but raking in the green with this book might be.
	BATTLE ROYAL OVER TELL-ALL
	If you hire a mouthpiece, you expect him to keep his mouth shut — no?
	No. Former Buckingham Palace press secretary with the Dickensian name, Dickie Arbiter, signed a tell-none agreement, but is writing a tell-all nonetheless including the "the most sensational and salacious royal stories."
	Prince Charles is furious, but Diana's fans maintain Arbiter is as disloyal to them as Charles was to Di.
	Right. Wonder if his tell-all will tell why Harry looks more like the horse guy than the prince?
	FAKE HOUSEWIVES OF NYC
	Incredibly offensive "Real Housewife" Ramona Singer blames the drop in ratings to her belief that the new housewives are just too cautious. Really? But how do you top Aviva Drescher throwing her prosthetic leg across the room during a fight? Of course once you throw a limb, throwing a punch just won't cut it.
	LSTASI@NYDAILYNEWS.COM / TWITTER @LINDASTASI