
	It was the same mysterious force that swallowed up Malaysia Flight 370.
	The Ukrainian government shot down Flight 17 to make Vlad look bad.
	President Obama and Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko had the commercial airliner shot out of the sky to make Russia, Putin and the pro-Russian separatists look bad.
	The bodies that rained down on Ukraine were really those from the missing Malaysia Flight 370.
	
	A Ukrainian fighter jet in the vicinity brought down the airliner.
	Ukrainian armed forces brought down the jet mistaking it for Putin's plane.
	Right. And the men in black masks who invaded Crimea at the beginning of the year weren't Russian, despite having billions in military vehicles and arms.
	Just as it was back then, once again, it is everyone and anyone but Russia. And the world is again being made into Putin's collective fool.
	Hard to believe, but these hard-to-believe theories are being pushed on the Internet by Russian and pro-Russian thugs as well as brain-washed Ukrainian civilians who would rather belong to a super-power, no matter how crooked, oppressive, suppressive and regressive, than to belong to a floundering new country attempting a government in which oligarchs and thieves no longer hold sway.
	
	And now men in black masks are again in Ukraine. This time, though, they're forensic investigators who need masks to inspect the bodies — bodies for which they had been illegally denied access.
	As the tragic farce plays out, world leaders, frightened of another war, losing access to oil and scared of a crazed Russian Dr. Strangelove with his finger on the trigger, posture and gesture and make vague threats that probably won't be acted upon. Again.
	Meantime, last week Putin made a deal with Cuba's leader, Raúl Castro, to forgive $32 billion in cold-war era debt in exchange for the right to reopen another cold-war era institution, the old electronic eavesdropping post there.
	Once more, Putin is denying it, saying he's not reopening the post despite the fact that the announcement was published in Russian media. No, not me, not us, not Russian, not even close, no. And again, we accept it because we think we have to.
	The man behaves like a thug and lies like a spy because that's who he is, was and always will be.
	So what happens when Putin breaks ground on a missile base in Cuba, 90 miles off Key West and denies that too?
	Will President Obama finally stop posturing and do something real? I believe he will. I believe he might even go so far as to ban borscht in Brighton Beach.
	Yesterday, flights to Tel Aviv were canceled by U.S. and European carriers after a rocket landed perilously close to the airport. Yet, what was the top trending story on Facebook? Right! A photo of backwards, topless Miley Cyrus making peace signs in the desert to prove that rumors of her death were greatly exaggerated. Finally, a star who does more than promote herself and talk peace without doing anything to make that happen. She's going topless for it.
	Why are these two half-wit sports stars tolerated?
	Brit nitwit Frank Lampard is in negotiations to join the New York City FC Major League Soccer team, which is owned by the Yankees.
	The day after 9/11, this guy along with his drunken Chelsea teammates stripped, swore and vomited in front of visibly upset and stranded U.S. tourists at a British hotel.
	Then, equally as terrible, a terrible actress, who portrays Alexander Rusev's Russian wrestling manager, Lana, went on a ring rant shortly after the plane was shot down, criticizing the U.S. for warmongering, and saying, "You blame Russia for current events?"
	This, by the way, was a scripted WWE performance from an American actress who sounds like a fake Russian who represents a fake Russian wrestler who is Bulgarian.
	Vulgarian meets Bulgarian and all should be banned from real American sports.
	Kanye West is a man in love! We know this because in his interview with GQ, he says poetic things about Kim Kardashian. "You mean to tell me that this girl with this f------ body and this face is also into style, and she's a nice person, and she has her own money and is family-oriented? That's just as cool as a f------ fighter jet or dinosaur!" Seriously, nothing says love like being compared with a brontosaurus.
	
	In the olden days before Times Square became Times Squarest, the biggest threat to New Yorkers and tourists weren't the hookers and junkies, it was the annoying mimes.
	But who would have thought Elmo would be a threat?
	On Monday night, at the tip of the horrid pedestrian street mall, stood three Elmos, one Cookie Monster (who disturbingly had his head half off), Minnie Mouse, a Statue of Liberty, Spider-Man and thousands of tourists trying to pass without being angrily confronted by a cartoon.
	The city wants to license these creatures, (Why not just get rid of them?) because for one thing, who the hell knows who's under the fur when they shove your kid or grope and run?
	"It was that Elmo! No, I mean, it was that Elmo!" "Hey, lady, are you sure it wasn't Cookie Monster?"
	
	Don't surrender until you see the whites of their flags. Pranksters or art-sters or maybe pissed-off Russian expats managed to somehow climb the 273-foot tower of the Brooklyn Bridge to replace the American flags with white ones. Do the white flags signify that we're yellow-bellied on Russia or do Brooklyn hipsters just think the normal colors are too gauche?
	lstasi@nydailynews.com / Twitter @LINDASTASI