
	Money talks, but Bloomberg flies. Like those Americans who defy the ban and fly to Cuba through the Caribbean, Mike Bloomberg defied the FAA's temporary ban on domestic flights into Israel, and on Wednesday boarded an El Al flight.
	Why? To show solidarity with the Israeli people. Not for nuthin' but what about solidarity with the American government?
	The FAA imposed the 24-hour ban for our safety. What if, during Big Bucks Bloomer's own reign, he had imposed a ban on, say, traveling over the Brooklyn Bridge because it had been identified as a terrorist threat?
	And you, Average Joe, decided you didn't agree and attempted to cross anyway?
	First off, you would have been arrested on the spot and Big Bucks would have gone on TV to whine about the consequences for breaking his rules.
	But rules — everyone else's anyway — don't apply to him. Never have. He even bought a third term, which was most definitely against the rules.
	When he wanted to put in pedestrian malls and bike lanes, did he go through the usual and lawful channels?
	Are you kidding? Instead, he used an obscure law that allows city projects to go ahead for a set number of months as an experiment.
	If, after that time, the city can provide proof of its success, the project can be made permanent.
	Were his malls a success? He said they were, and really, how would we know? Did you sit there with a clicker counting off the numbers? I sure didn't. His minions could have claimed that 80 million people sat in Times Square every day. Who'd know?
	So in that same rules-don't-apply-to-the-rich spirit, Bloomberg boarded an El Al flight to show the world that he thinks Israel is a safe place.
	It is not. Not now. A rocket had struck a mile away from Ben Gurion Airport and that's what prompted the 24-hour ban.
	Bloomberg wrote that the FAA handed Hamas a significant victory by imposing a temporary ban.
	Thus far, more than 800 Palestinians have been killed, as opposed to 36 Israelis. What victory?
	A 24-hour ban to help keep Americans and American airlines safe didn't hand the losing side any victory in a losing battle. Even his money can't change that.
	A REAL PUTINA
	This week poor Mariya Putina (I swear that's her name), the daughter of dictator Vladimir Putin, was forced — forced! I tell you — to flee her luxurious $3.3 million dollar penthouse in Amsterdam, where she had been shacked up with her Dutch boyfriend.
	She took off after a BUK missile supplied by her father blew up a Malaysian passenger plane, killing all 295 passengers, including 189 Dutch citizens, and the mayor there wanted her to get the boot. Or in the case of Holland, the clog.
	But going undercover is part of the spy family's modus operandi. Neither Mariya, nor her sister Yekaterina, were ever seen by the Russian people.
	Can you imagine never seeing the First Family's kids?
	Now nobody's seeing her because Mariya and her boyfriend have gone underground.
	Too bad Papa Putin isn't underground too — six feet underground.
	JURISTS ARE ALEC PURISTS
	In light of Alec Baldwin's failed promises to leave New York City, can we at least get rid of the judges who fawn over him?
	Take last week's poorest jurist, Judge John DeLury, who mustn't be a tweeter or he would have seen that even before showing up in court, Baldwin retweeted, "NY City is a mismanaged carnival of stupidity that is desperate for revenue and anxious to criminalize behavior once thought benign."
	After Baldwin refused to apologize, and refused to allow DeLury to engage him in movie talk, DeLury advised the rageaholic, "Be a good boy from now on!" Wow. Harsh.
	That same day, Baldwin's yogi wife, Hilaria, Instagrammed herself in a bikini with this incomprehensibly anti-yogic advice: "You only live once ... make it count." Hello? What about the yoga belief in reincarnation?
	Sounds more Yogi Berra, than Yogananda.
	SEX-SCARRED
	According to Lucinda Franks' upcoming book, Hillary Clinton said the only reason Bubba is such a sex-addicted cheater is because his beloved mother, Virginia Kelley, abused him! How, we don't know. Monica Lewinsky is right. With Hillary, it's always the woman's fault. Bill's mom was an abusive monster, Monica was a "narcissistic looney tune," Gennifer Flowers was "trailer trash."
	What do you call a serial philanderer's serial enabler? A feminasty?
	PERFECTLY EXPLAINABLE
	A St. Louis priest, about to die, comes clean about presiding at the 1949 exorcism upon which "The Exorcist" was based. In Washington State, 113 elk drop dead and a crop circle is found nearby. In 2013, they had a guy who sweated nail polish remover and was always spontaneously combusting. Conspiracy theorists unite! On Tuesday at 10 p.m., my favorite show (except for "America's Got Talent") "The Unexplained Files" returns on Science.
	GOOD FOR HER, NOT FOR THEM
	Staten Island Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis tweeted that NYC has no place for the stranded emigrant children in Texas detention centers. This from a woman whose own mother emigrated from Cuba in 1959, when she was 15! Perhaps Malliotakis thinks we should have closed the borders the day after we took her mother in. Perhaps we should have closed the borders the day before! People who are raised to spew that kind of hatred against suffering children are the only people for whom there is no place for in this country.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com 
	Follow her on Twitter: @lindastasi