
	Cable news is clueless
	Al Sharpton excoriates the mayor and police commissioner in public. Ann Coulter compares our border problems to Israel's. Geraldo Rivera declares that the most valuable thing a woman can bring to a marriage is youth.
	(Actually the most valuable thing a woman can bring to marriage is a man who isn't Geraldo.)
	Hello and welcome to another week of the dangerous, relentless self-promoting publicity seekers of cable news — or whatever it is that we should call nutworks that give power to the deplorable.
	Seriously, even calling cable news "news" nowadays is like Nancy Pelosi taking Qatar's word for it that Hamas is a humanitarian organization.
	These once-legit news outlets have caved to ratings and are now just pop propagandist outlets for left- and right-wing agendas disguised as "fair, balanced" and worse, true.
	But last week was particularly repulsive, with hatred flowing faster than raw sewage into the Hudson.
	Let's start with bobble-head talking head Al Sharpton.
	The whole idea that Mayor de Blasio and Commish Bill Bratton invited this government informing, alleged-attempted drug money launderer pastor-turned-talk show host to a forum where they were lectured to and humiliated by him is a nod to liberal cable news, even a low-performing outlet like MSNBC. Is this because former Sharpton spokeswoman Rachel Noerdlinger now works for Chirlane McCray? Maybe.
	Would they have given Bill O'Reilly a forum like this? Don't count on it.
	Then there was the always miserable Ann Coulter, who will say anything to get press, no matter how heinous, horrific and hateful.
	Not only did she say on Fox News that we should deal with our borders the way Netanyahu deals with Israel's, as though rockets are being launched into Texas on a daily basis, but that Palestinian kids get killed because "they're associated with a terrorist organization."
	Damn those infant-suicide bombers!
	How could any sane human put stock in the advice of a person who irrationally, yet voluntarily, dated not just Bob Guccione Jr., but also Andrew Stein!
	Speaking of hateful men, Geraldo Rivera last week, sounding like he fell into a time machine and came out in 1956, told four working women on Fox News that although generally "the man is the breadwinner" (huh?) and women do work more these days (what?), the most valuable thing women bring to marriage is youth. This from a five-times married man who posts naked, drunken selfies — when his 32-years younger latest wife isn't around.
	In the words of Bette Midler, who once had the unfortunate bad luck to have had sex with him, "Ew! Geraldo."
	BEY THAT AS IT MAY
	She's looking for a new apartment, he's supposedly bedded more women than Sleepy's, she's working on a song with Nicki Minaj hinting that she's leaving her husband, including a rap about how "n---ers out there make me feel so damn fine, I'm flawless." Her sister beats her husband up in an elevator while she stands by like she's waiting for a bus.
	But everything is just fine, which we know because on Friday she Instagrammed a photo of her husband and baby captioning it, "My favorite hue is Jay Z Blue."
	Isn't the world tired of being played like a beat machine by Beyonce?
	Better yet, why isn't Beyonce tired of being played by her player and covering for him? It's all getting as tiring as a Kardashian selfie.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Putin on the Fritz: The European Union is finally hitting Putin with some very serious sanctions. Until further notice there will be an all-Euro ban on Russian dressing ...
	Sleeping With the Dishes: Why would Gov. Cuomo be in bed with crooked, seriously unattractive upstate pols, when he's already in bed with seriously dishy Sandra Lee ...
	Nonstop GOP Flop: Best phrase this week via The Wire's Russell Berman — GOP Tells Obama to Ignore Congress One Day After Suing Him for Ignoring Congress ...
	Preet Bleat: With the magnificent failures of the JP Morgan/Madoff case, followed by the international incident he caused by his arrest and indictment of an Indian diplomat in front of her kid's school for underpaying her maid, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara has set his sights on the governor. He's not just going ater him, he's after his job too — or so goes a big, open secret.
	EMPTY SUITS, EMPTY HOUSE
	What happened to elected officials who worked for the good of the people instead of the good of their parties?
	Republicans have so ham-strung the country that Congress spent the last hours before vacation bitterly arguing with one another about the immigration bill, as thousands of kids languished in makeshift refugee camps. At one point, Nancy Pelosi even chased Rep. Tom Marino across the chamber and up the stairs like an enraged Solange Knowles.
	Meantime, this earlier failure to reach a decision made the Democrats positively ecstatic. Wrong. Nobody should be ecstatic over partisan failure.
	How much more do we need of this dysfunction to show us that the Houses are filled with political hacks who care only about getting their side in and your side out?
	BAD COP SHOULD ALREADY HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED
	On Friday, the medical examiner deemed the death of Eric Garner a homicide brought on by bad cop Daniel Pantaleo.
	In truth, no mayor in recent memory has tried so hard to end discrimination by the NYPD. No, that couldn't be accomplished in seven months.
	Pantaleo should have been suspended by the previous administration after three serious lawsuits were filed for alleged brutality. Period.
	TARA REID STINKS LIKE SHARKNADO
	Just when you thought it was safe to go back into the water, Sharknado flew into a plane. And then the next day it got worse.
	On Friday, hoping to make some bucks off "Sharknado," Tara Reid launched her fragrance, called, yes, Shark.
	Don't even think what you're thinking, because, no, it doesn't smell like fish, but like lavender.
	We knew lavender repelled silverfish, but who knew it could repel a 7,300-pound fish like a shark?
	Chances are good it will probably repel most humans too.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com
	@lindastasi