Renee Zellweger must have expected the fallout that resulted from the new look she debuted Monday night. In fact, she quickly stepped up and responded to the buzz.As a fellow human being "gifted" since birth with squinty eyes, I can understand why Zellweger appears to have opted for an upper eye lift. (Me, I'm scared of any kind of cosmetic surgery — seen too many cases of it go bad.)And as a member of the commentariat, I expected the Zellweger photo to be followed by death-by-analysis — of which I am also guilty of by virtue of this blog post. But seriously, I'm trying to instill a bit of common sense into the hysteria.You've got the breathless source telling LA Fox that this is all about Zellweger's insecurities. Vox and a host of other sites are busting with the "demands-we-put-on-celebrity-women" columns. Another columnist maintains that a hoax is involved in the Zellweger story and thinks it's only natural to ask "where has the real Renee Zellweger gone"?The narrative arc of the Zellweger story bends neatly into our continuing concerns about The Evils of The Internet as it pertains, particularly, to women. (Something that, as my post yesterday referenced, seems to have a lot of us worried.)Plus the story conveniently plays into a larger well-trod narrative: That's the sad but true reality that we are light-years away from the point at which women aren't judged, first, by our appearance. It's a problem that men face as well — but nowhere near the degree to which women face it. The stakes go up for women in the public eye, from office seekers to high-profile CEOs to broadcast journalists. Add in the digital megaphone of the Internet and it's no wonder that few of us want to look into the comments section ... or to comment on certain topics for fear of online reprisals.Yet in the case of Zellweger, I wonder if folks are making too much of very little. Yes, folks can be cruel. But celebrities have a good idea of what they are getting themselves into — especially when they decide to change their appearance. This story strikes me not so much as the latest brick in the "objectifying women" wall but rather the public's love of juicy Hollywood gossip. It's the same reason many of us clicked on this story about Kate Middleton's Marilyn Monroe-like skirt moment earlier this week.We've got plenty to worry about on the Internet when it comes to harassment of women — starting with GamerGate, the violent graphic death and rape threats aimed at female writers and game developers. But is the big rush to judge Zellweger on her new look really any different than Pinterest's wall of "men aging gracefully — or not"?I don't think Zellweger is losing much sleep over this — and we female journalists are probably well-served to follow her very reasonable reaction and move on to more important matters.