
	Forget the illegal aliens pouring over the borders. What we really should be concerned about are aliens on the moon.
	No, the moon is not just a big, dumb, empty space rock. It's occupied, or at least it has been visited by a race of good-looking space babes, and a new documentary coming to SyFy will prove it! Sure, you thought the world had seen the last of the moon occupants after 1958's "Missile to the Moon." In that movie, a dwindling race of love-starved women who looked like Kim Kardashian were defeated by Earthlings. But they're still around.
	Now, Robert Kiviat, the guy who brought us my favorite TV documentary of all time — the blockbuster "Alien Autopsy" (almost 12 million viewers) — is next Sunday bringing us "Aliens on the Moon: The Truth Exposed."
	I talked truth with Kiviat, who has devoted light-years to delving into NASA's database. How? He knows a guy who knows a guy. Or in this case, a guy who knows an astronaut who knows a scientist.
	Among the most compelling evidence, he says, is a giant bridge on the moon which would dwarf anything on Earth. Yes, but our bridges to nowhere probably cost more.
	And he says it is even possible that the moon program did not end with Apollo 17 (whose astronauts were spooked by something — even Science Channel acknowledges that).
	"Five or so years after Apollo 17," Kiviat told me, claims were made that Apollo 15 supposedly had found a fuselage. A very, very large fuselage.
	"It looks to be three to five miles long. Sometime in the mid-1970s, they went to the area again and found an alien woman."
	But our lady of the moon is only a very small part of the show and may overwhelm other compelling evidence and theories by U.S. Apollo astronauts who appear in the special.
	I asked Kiviat about the websites disputing these claims. "We wanted to show everything," he said, "and this could very well be a disinformation case. But we see the rocket go up, the lunar module landing, and if it's a hoax, it's a grand one."
	I hope not because, as predicted in "Missile to the Moon," the moon alien is a babe in lamé.
	The photo is either proof positive that aliens have visited the moon in a spaceship manned by alien movie stars from outer space or the photo is a never-before-seen post-op photo of Kim Kardashian straight out of the OR after plastic surgery.
	If she is an alien from deep space, let me be the first to say, no free health care, food stamps or tuition assistance for you, honey.
	If she can afford lamé suits and five-mile-long spaceships, she sure as hell can afford to pay for her own cheese.
	CHELSEA ON FREE SPEECH
	Despite the liberal bent of the Clintons, the family does not believe in free speech.
	In fact, money talks, nobody walks.
	This week, in yet another embarrassing Clinton reveal, we found out that Chelsea Clinton, who does not care about money (but accepted a $600,000 salary to be what? A correspondent on NBC?), gets $75,000 to speak.
	Although she gives most of her speeches for free, she's a big draw in environmental and Jewish groups.
	Well, she lives very large, so her environment must be fantastic.
	As for the Jewish expertise, maybe it comes from being married to a Jewish guy.
	I am too, so anyone looking to give me $75,000 to speak about how a shiksa can learn to throw a great Seder without the Easter ham, please call, I'm a big expert.
	LETTER FROM JERUSALEM
	This arrived in my inbox from a 26-year-old relative of mine in Jerusalem, Tal Perelman:
	I was born during the first Gaza operation, and my life since has been measured by wars punctuated by peace.
	At 3, I was wearing a gas mask during the Gulf War. Sixteen years later, I served proudly in the Israeli Navy during the Second Lebanon war. Two years after that, I fought in the Gaza War.
	Now the bombs are flying again.
	For the past 12 years, Hamas has been shooting missiles at the south of Israel every day. Would you not defend yourselves?
	Every group has radicals. On 9/11, it wasn't Muslim citizens who attacked — it was a radical terror group.
	We don't blame the Israeli or Palestinian citizens for this war. We blame the terror organization called Hamas.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Performance artist Laurie Anderson was trapped last week in a hyperbaric chamber. Wait. Don't all performance artists live in hyperbaric chambers to begin with?
	... Ohio-born LeBron James' decision to leave Miami and return to Ohio is as big a disappointment to Florida as the Argentine-born Pope Francis refusing to pray for Argentina in the World Cup.
	... Uber has offered to cut surge pricing during emergencies. Who knew it was allowed to gouge during emergencies in the first place?
	HOMING IN ON THE RICH
	A top-secret bazillionaires club, Tiger 21, sued a real estate broker for spamming members after she got her hands on its confidential members list. It claims that Halstead Property broker, Dorothy Somekh, was motivated by pure greed. This from a group whose members must have investments worth at least $10 million. Definitely a case of the pot calling the kettle gold-plated.
	'THE VIEW' FROM ABRIDGED
	As reported in Confidenti@l, @theviewtv tweeted out last week, "It's not what you get, it's who you become." What? Is that like the a-header you go, the a-hinder you get? "The View" isn't just in transition, it's in free fall. Getting rid of Joy Behar took, well, the joy out of the show. Women want clever and funny. We don't want/need a panel with men, bores, boors or Playboy Playmates with opinions. This once-great show has gone from fun to glum.