
	This week, so many women left ABC it was like a network-wide promo for HBO's "The Leftovers," a series in which 2% of the population spontaneously disappears.
	On Wednesday, the network announced Diane Sawyer was leaving the sweet spot at "World News" to "produce specials," and on Thursday they canned Jenny McCarthy and Sherri Shepherd from "The View."
	Since "leaving to produce specials" is for TV anchors what "wants to spend more time with the family" is for CEOs, the cliché didn't exactly fly too high.
	The fact is that nobody in TV has ever left of their own free will to produce specials, well, except Barbara Walters.
	If Sawyer is getting a Manolo Blahnik in the ass just so ABC can bring in the younger (and, frankly, as competent) male, David Muir, shame on them.
	That move is sexist, ageist and also dumb. No matter what fantasies news bosses perpetually harbor, those coveted younger men (the golden demographic) don't rush home like 1960s dads in time to watch the 6 o'clock news.
	If 18-49-year-olds are home, it's because they're either out of work, and therefore can't afford the incontinence supplies (they also don't need) advertised on the evening news, or they're young moms who sure don't have time to watch the news and are only interested in the diapers that babies wear.
	But most women don't really count in TV news programmers' minds because, according to some ancient advertising wisdom, women don't change brands after 25 or some idiocy.
	Of course, Sawyer's defied convention and has been doing that high-profile-but-boring "real man's" gig since 2009. Maybe she just wants to put on a flak jacket and get back in the action like a real woman.
	Stay tuned. Oh wait, never mind.
	
	Also this week, the once great "The View" took a hit and got a hit when producers canned Sherri Shepherd — who supposedly wanted too much dough — along with the truly awful Jenny McCarthy, who had as much business on a women's talk show as, well, any other stripper.
	What in hell could have ever made any of those lunkheads think that Jenny from the blockheads would be relatable to women?
	Wearing glasses (and clothes, once in a great while) did not make her smart. She is still an irresponsible Playboy Playmate who wrote ridiculous books claiming that autism is caused by childhood vaccines, a theory originally based on shoddy evidence by a disbarred British doctor.
	Hey, parents, let's end autism by exposing kids to rubella.
	Anyway, now it's just Whoopi at "The View." Sure, she has done great one-woman shows, but even the Whoop can't handle a panel show without a panel.
	TOUNGE IN CHEEK ADVICE
	Upon kissing her new hubby, Derick Dillard, for the first time, reality star Jill Duggar pronounced him a great kisser.
	How she knows this since she has never kissed a boy before is hard to say, but all that saving yourself until marriage business? It sure seems to have worked for her parents, Michelle and Jim Bob.
	They procreate more than the guy in the Bible who had 88 kids.
	Mom's marital advice: "To meet the physical needs of a man, a woman must always be available when he calls."
	My advice: You're frigging kidding me, right?
	Michelle's words work well for ladies who keep track of their lives by trimesters, sure, but not so well for everyone else, especially for women such as her daughter, Jill, whose bridal registry includes deadly firearms.
	MADGE'S LOOK ALL THE RAGE
	Madonna has become as bad at stealing the spotlight as Winona was at stealing merch from Saks.
	Now, she's aping Rihanna by going Muslim sheik, er, chic.
	The kleptomania began in 2003 when Madonna figured she would try trendy lesbian pop by making out with younger rivals Britney and Christina at the VMAs.
	In 2007, after Angelina stole the media's fancy by adopting children from third-world countries, Madonna basically took a couple of her own from Malawi, where it was claimed the adoptions were illegal.
	Then, just as Harper's Bazaar's Rihanna of Arabia spread hits, Madonna Instagrammed a pic of herself in a full burqa.
	Isn't it about time the Immaterial Girl thinks about hanging up her niqab and riding off into the desert? She's stinking up Instagram like a camel in heat.
	NEW YORK'S LEGAL WALK OF SHAME
	What's wrong with this equation? The News' Barbara Ross reports that New York State's supposedly "unified" court system deals in two different ways with alleged victims of sex crimes. If a court employee in criminal court — a clerk, lawyer, judge, court officer — discloses the identity of a victim in court, he or she is breaking the law. But in civil court? Identifying victims can be the law. In fact, in one case involving alleged slime-o gyno Dr. Robert Hadden, the case was dismissed because the victim insisted on anonymity.
	BOOB TUBES
	As part of the Museum of Sex's new Funland interactive playground, guests are invited to jump around on giant, inflatable breasts. One leaping sexrobat told The News, "I don't know anywhere else in the world where you can jump around with a bunch of boobs."
	I do. It's called the New York State Senate.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Isis v. ISIS: In ancient Egypt, Isis was the divine bringer of life; in modern Iraq, ISIS is the profane bringer of death ... Plane good manners: Brava to Amy Adams, who quietly gave up her first-class seat to a soldier on Friday. And better yet, for not Tweeting her own horn about it ... Who's got the Beouf?: I can understand Shia LaBeouf getting arrested during "Cabaret." I nearly killed my husband during the second act just for making me go in the first place.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com
	Follow her on Twitter: @lindastasi