
	The Second Amendment has been the subject of one of the greatest pieces of fraud — I repeat the word "fraud" — on the American public by special interest groups that I have seen in my lifetime.
	No, that's not my opinion, (well, it is but I didn't originally say it). Nor was it said by President Obama, Mayor Bloomberg; not Rambo, Rimbaud, or a random, raving ranter.
	That anti-Second Amendment sentiment was said by none other than Chief Justice Warren Burger, a hard-nosed conservative appointed by Richard Nixon.
	Luckily, for Burger at any rate, he didn't live long enough to see that the "fraud," which was supposed to give us the right to bear arms against tyranny, has instead allowed tyranny to bear arms against us.
	The first ten days of this month alone saw two separate school shootings. Two!
	We're literally being held hostage by mentally disturbed kids who are supported by mentally disturbed grown men who run the NRA, who in turn control mentally unfit politicians.
	What happened to elected officials who placed the welfare of our country before the welfare of their pockets? They were done in by the gun lobby, that's what.
	Horrifying as it is to believe, since 1990, killers have walked into 170 schools fully loaded to inflict untold horror upon thousands.
	
	What was a shocking, sickening occurrence at Columbine High School in 1999 has become so much a part of the fabric of our shredding democracy that the news stories last a single day.
	They last a single day unless, God forbid, it's your child who is killed, maimed or destroyed for life. Then it's not a single day, but a lifetime of unimaginable grief.
	The killing and maiming of our children must be laid at the bloody feet of our cowardly elected officials who do the bidding of the NRA, which has distorted the concept of the right to bear arms into the right to kill kids with assault weapons.
	The Second Amendment consists of one sentence: "A well regulated militia, being necessary for the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed."
	
	That sentence, with its strangely placed commas, has been endlessly debated. Does it mean citizens needed to be armed to secure against a tyrannical government when we had no standing army? Probably, yet ironically now it's our government that's controlled by a tyrannical gun lobby.
	And our elected cowards are cogs in the machine that kills our kids like useless detritus of the gun debate.
	The Brennan Center for Law points out that the words on the NRA building facade are no longer about marksmanship. Now it's a truncated version of the Second Amendment: "... the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed."
	Clearly, the first part of the sentence — about a well-regulated militia — didn't fit. No, I don't mean it wouldn't fit on the NRA facade, but with its agenda.
	STEAL-LARY CLINTON
	The Clintons love to rewrite history, yes, but stealing it is something else again. Hillary's new book, "Hard Choices" is not just the name of a cheesy porn film (no, not starring Bill), but as my NY1 partner Mark Simone pointed out, it is also the title of the book by another former Secretary of State, Cyrus Vance! Bill's working on his next book, too: "War and Piece."
	
	PERRY'S TEXAS MIS-TWO-STEP
	Texas Gov. Rick Perry, channeling a 1980s televangelist, last week declared, "I may have the genetic coding that I'm inclined to be an alcoholic, but I have the desire not to do that, and I look at the homosexual issue the same way." Wait! Perry's inclined to drink while being gay? I'm confused.
	But what's not confusing is that Perry's inspiration for denying inclination doesn't apply to everyone. Like prison rapists.
	In March, Gov. Perry refused flat-out to adopt federal standards against prison rape. What? Why?
	In March he sent the Justice Department a letter saying the anti-prison-rape rules violated states' rights and besides, were too expensive. This despite the fact that Texas got $4 million in U.S. grants for just that purpose.
	Perry says the rules would be "impossible" to implement.
	Well at least now we know that you can stop being gay but can't stop being a prison rapist. But what if you're a gay prison rapist?
	As they say in Texas, "He's studyin' to be a half-wit, and I'm afraid he ain't gonna make it."
	THE NEW MEANING OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
	How intelligent is U.S. intelligence if the CIA was caught by surprise not only by the recent collapse of Iraq but by Putin's invasion of Crimea? And who can forget the disastrous war over non-existent WMDs, or Snowden?
	What in hell are they doing with that (secret) reportedly nearly $54 billion budget besides wiretapping U.S. citizens and setting up Twitter accounts? Forget 007, these agents are all double-O zero.
	BLUE-HAIRED LADY
	If Blue Ivy, daughter of Beyonce and Jay Z, were a white kid, would anyone have ever made an online petition about grooming her hair? No. Denise Joly, an African-American beauty exec at Coty, mom of two little ones, has an expert opinion on the subject. "This little girl just came back from the Hamptons! Maybe she was in the pool or running through sprinklers. Let her be a toddler!"
	CRASHIN' THE KARDASHIANS' STORE
	The Kardashians are to Southampton like the snakes were to Ireland, except this time it's the vipers chasing out the saints.
	Lane Brettschneider, who's been a part-time Southie since Jesus was a baby, (which is good seeing how he's a Jew who loves to attend Catholic Mass) happened to be at services at Sacred Heart of Mary and Jesus last Sunday when the pastor announced that it would be nice if "someone left the church bulletin in that new pop-up store in the village, the one that the famous family opened."
	Good Jewish boy that he is, Lane popped into the Kardashian's Dash store, and was told by a large guard to dash outta there and take his pamphlets with him.
	Not good, considering that Lane has not one, but two Gods on his side and the Kardashians don't seem to have any.
	
	EXPRESS LINES
	Rip off strip-off: Prosecutors were concerned that the strippers who ripped off their cardiologist-client endangered his health and safety. Anybody worried about how the doctor endangered his patients by hanging with strippers in and outside a strip joint? ... It just ain't normal: Perfectly perfect Miss Indiana USA Tweeted that she's proud of her "normal" body. If that's the new normal, we're all screwed ... Dolphin don'ts: A woman reports that she had sex with a dolphin and then it killed itself. You'd think it would have been the other way around ... No-class NYCLASS: Of course anti-carriage horse/real estate developer Steve Nislick isn't interested in scooping up the land where the stables are located. He's just an animal lover. Only thing? Why didn't he speak out when an NYPD dog was seriously injured in Brooklyn and an NYPD horse ran loose in the Bronx? Just asking. ... Matt finish: To paraphrase Mark Twain, the rumors of Matt Lauer's untimely demise were greatly exaggerated. Matt's got "Today" — and at least 730 more tomorrows — at NBC before the rumors start all over again.