
	Pick One:
	 Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl is a traitorous Taliban sympathizer and American-hating jihadist.
	 Sgt. Bowe is a deep undercover lawful combatant (a spy, OK?), which is why he was promoted twice after he deserted.
	 Sgt. Bowe is both a traitor and a hero who was the inspiration for the fictional Sgt. Brody on "Homeland."
	Whatever your choice, the only thing not up for question is that no citizen in American history has gone from hero to less-than-zero more efficiently than Bergdahl.
	He was acclaimed last Sunday by national security adviser Susan Rice as a soldier who served with "honor and distinction," and again on Friday in Normandy on the anniversary of the Allied invasion: "This was a young man who volunteered to serve his country in uniform at a time of war. That, in and of itself, is a very honorable thing."
	Not if he deserted, it isn't.
	Lack of proof and White House misinformation has not, however, stopped people suffering OTF (Over-tweeter's Fatigue) from deciding, via social media, Bergdahl's guilt, his innocence, and/or how the White House should have handled his release.
	But what does a real combat hero think? No, not me, but Nelson DeMille, whom you know as a mega-best-selling author but whom you may not know as a war hero who received the Air Medal, the Bronze Star and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry.
	"It was upsetting to see the commander-in-chief in the Rose Garden entertaining the mother and father of a deserter and traitor," he said. "As a combat veteran, I am offended, angry and totally speechless. Obama has a new sign on his desk: The luck stops here."
	No matter how Bergdahl was rolling, the way the President traded him for five senior Taliban leaders has caused yet another war at home.
	And after 12 years of an illegal, undeclared war, we all have combat fatigue.
	BIEBER JOINS KU KLUTZ KLAN
	You don't need to have more than three brain cells to know that Justin Bieber doesn't even have two brain cells to rub together.
	After his latest racist video leaked, friends and foes immediately jumped in to condemn or defend him — including his pal Lil Wayne. Thing is, in all the noise, nobody seems to have noticed the bigger point: The kid was joking about violence against blacks.
	Yes, Bieber dropped the N-bomb (six times in one video!) and yes, he was about 15 at the time, but - hello? - in both videos he was laughing about spree-killing black people. In one, the moronic teen speed-spouted the N-word to imitate blacks running from a chain saw. Words hurt, but a chain saw? Now you're talking dead.
	In the second, Bieber, who recently has decided that he is a black man himself, is again looking to eliminate blacks.
	To the tune of "One Less Lonely Girl," young Biebs warbles, "One Less Lonely N----. If I kill you, I'll be part of the KKK." The KKK line gets a big ha-ha-ha from another idiot off-camera.
	Time to sing a new tune: "One More Lonely Has-Been."
	KASEM CHAOS
	Even Cinderella's wicked stepmother never hurled raw meat at the future princess. But last week, even-more wicked stepmother Jean Kasem, in an er, beef with her stepdaughters over the care of invalid husband, Casey, took to the driveway to hurl some chopped chuck at his daughters. Lady Gaga immediately had the beef picked up and wore it later that evening.
	KILLER SELFIES
	An elite professional assassin is gunning for Kim Kardashian. With selfies. The Kardashian look-alike, "La Emperatriz de los Anthrax," supposedly head of the killing squad of a drug cartel, posts more selfies than a Kardashian.
	Not for nuthin' but don't professional assassins keep it on the down-low? This killer with the killer looks on the other hand poses in low-cut gowns holding that must-have black tie accessory, a gold-plated assault rifle. Emperatriz Anthrax is acting as much like a real assassin as Kim acts like a real — uh, what the hell is Kim supposed to be anyway?
	EXPRESS LINES
	Snippet Sniper: What do you call a trained sniper who threatens to shoot anyone who doesn't support Israel? Dr. Ruth.
	... Deadly Bureaucracy: How is it possible there is a $22,500 reward for the Yonkers cat killer, but only a $14,000 reward for the East New York child killer - that, while $45 million sat wasting away in NYCHA's coffers.
	... Profit Prophet: Joel Osteen says he is not a prosperity minister, but at $40 million he sure isn't a poverty preacher, either.
	... It takes a Village Idiot: Bernie Kerik accusing Joe Tacopina of extramarital affairs is like A-Rod accusing Derek Jeter of being a player.
	... Break It: Jennifer Lopez (above with mom and kids) broke it off with her boy toy after he supposedly took up with a boy toy of his own, and Melanie Griffith filed for divorce from Antonio Banderas, the man every woman wants for a boy toy.
	VLAD GOES NOSE-TO-NOSE
	Vladimir Putin took time out from picking his nose to pick on Hillary Clinton, while simultaneously revealing himself to be not just the pig we know and hate, but a sexist pig to boot. Putin, furious Clinton had compared him to Hitler, told French TV, "When people push boundaries too far, it's not because they are strong, but because they are weak. But maybe weakness is not the worst quality for a woman."
	This from a man who keeps his own women weak as sick kittens. Putin's daughters, The New Yorker reports, have never been seen by the Russian people. And the wife he divorced after taking up with a half-his-age-Olympic gymnast? She's virtually disappeared as well.
	CORPSE ONBOARD
	So a 62-year-old guy, his 93-year-old mother and his 31-year-old girlfriend go on a cross-country drive and who dies? The 31-year-old, that's who! What's a man, his mother and a stiff to do in such situation? The man, Ray Tomlinson, the corpse and the mom continued their road trip from Arizona to Detroit, that's what.