
	On Monday, the Supreme Court broke the space/time continuum by propelling us back to the 15th century when it came down on the side of horny holy men against the very women these horndogs lust after. The 5-4 decision will make it legal for closely held corporations — ones that don't approve of certain types of birth control for religious reasons — to refuse to provide coverage for those forms of contraception in their insurance plans.
	The thing is that these corporations' insurance plans will continue to pay for Viagra and Cialis for men, which ironically enough should kill any sex drive for all no-longer-insured women who aren't named Duggard.
	But, hey, what religion doesn't love a guy with an erection lasting four or more hours? And why should insurance companies care if erection drugs like Viagra and Cialis can cause those erectioneers to go blind? At least the old fools will have the times of their lives, even if they can't see who — or what — they're trying to impregnate.
	So it turns out, Mother was wrong: You don't go blind from doing nasty things to yourself behind closed doors, you actually go sightless from never giving it a rest.
	Men with erectile dysfunction who now have endless erections will be chasing women who can no longer have carefree sex, and therefore will be losing their sex drive — for men, at least — in record numbers.
	Worse, the unfortunate women who are insured by these corporations, who can't afford birth control in the first place, now may end up with children they also can't afford, forcing them onto the welfare rolls.
	This could cost all U.S. taxpayers more money we can afford to waste for something we didn't want in the first place. Good one.
	And who exactly voted for this law that takes away women's rights to affordable contraception of their choice, while protecting men's right to free erection drugs, so they can impregnate more women?
	The most important sexual decision for women possibly since Roe v. Wade, which was brought by the religious owners of a chain store called Hobby Lobby (Hobby's Lobby would be more like it), was decided by male Supreme Court justices. The five justices who voted for it were all men appointed by Republican Presidents, while three of the justices opposing were women, with one man — all appointed by Democratic Presidents.
	The bottom line? Insurance companies will pay for impotent men to impregnate women who don't want to have children but can't afford birth control.
	Noncompliant females will be stripped of their burqas and stoned to death.
	IT'S HAIL TO THE CHIEFS
	It was so great to hear Bill Clinton announce to David Gregory that he's running for a third term. Sure, a President can serve only two terms, but that's what we used to think about the New York City mayoralty, too — until Mayor Bucksberg decided to flout the law.
	But Bill doesn't have to spend $102 mil of his own dough, like Mike did — he's got Hillary to run for him.
	The last time Hillary ran, good hubby Bill stumped for her and told adoring fans that his wife already knew how to be President. For one thing, she had lived in the White House, which he called "the best public housing in the world!"
	Now that the HillBillys are down to their last $100-$200 mil, they'll need that free public housing more than ever!
	RED, BITE AND BLUE
	Don't panic till you see the whites. Three great white sharks have been seen in the water off Rockaway Beach, another almost jumped into a boat off Cape May, and yet another bumped a fishing boat off Fire Island.
	Phil Argiros of the Long Island Aquarium and Exhibition Center told NBC News that we shouldn't panic, but instead enjoy the great whites among us without fear that they will kill everyone.
	Yeah, well, that's what the guy said to all those Fourth of July swimmers in "Jaws," too. And look how well that turned out.
	RULING FOR COP HARD TO SWALLOW
	In another, er, bone-headed court decision, a federal judge overturned the conviction of Cannibal Cop Gilberto Valle, declaring that the ex-cop had the right to share his ideas and recipes for cooking alive and eating his female friends.
	It was not a crime, just a fantasy, decided Judge Paul Gardephe. You gotta wonder if the judge would have made that same judgment if the woman Valle wanted to roast and eat had been someone from his family. Oh, wait, I know no.
	The good news is that Valle learned a job skill in the can. As revealed by the Daily News, he is a prison chef!
	Because even cannibals have mothers who love them, Valle's mom gushed that his pizza is his specialty. Good, but just don't ask him for a Pizza Margherita, or you just might get Margherita.
	TALKING SMACK IN AN 'EXCLUSIVE'
	It's not shocking that Angelina Jolie's self-confessed heroin dealer, Franklin Meyer, sold, er, told all about the star in an "exclusive" to The National Enquirer complete with video. He gave almost the exact same "exclusive" interview to Life  Style four years ago. What's shocking is that the yammering yutz is not in jail.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Belgian Wafflers: Belgium produces 220,000 tons of chocolate, makes better fries than the French, invented the Belgian waffle and Belgian beer. So why do Americans get fat from it all? ... Slick Mick: Jagger, in a video for Monty Python's reunion shows, jokingly calls the cast "wrinkly old men trying to relive their youth." Only the coolest wrinkly old man on the planet with a 27-year-old girlfriend could get away with saying that.