
	Last week, Rupert Murdoch, the king of all media, bid 80 billion big ones to buy Time Warner, which includes the whole TV behemoth — Warner Brothers, HBO, CNN and you name it. (Even he doesn't want CNN, but that's another matter altogether.)
	While Murdoch, for sure, will swear not to make any changes in line with his political agenda, here are a couple suggestions he might consider:
	VEEP 
	The Old: Julia Louis-Dreyfus as a hapless VP who can't get anything done in a bogged-down system. The New: Jenny McCarthy as a right-wing VP and former stripper who gets everything done by flashing her knock-out knockers.
	GAME OF THRONES 
	The Old: Emmy winner Peter Dinklage as Tyrion Lannister, a royal dwarf who crushes everyone that gets in his way with brilliant political maneuvering and military cunning. The New: Former Calif. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger as Terminator Lannister, a royal giant who crushes everyone that gets in his way by beating the crap out of them.
	CNN 
	The Old: Candy Crowley in a sensible suit discussing political affairs and the importance of new media. The New: Kim Kardashian in a shirtless suit discussing sexual affairs and the importance of the selfie.
	THE NEWSROOM 
	The Old: Charlie Skinner, the news director with a conscience. The New: Rebekah Brooks, the news director without a soul.
	TRUE BLOOD 
	The Old: Vampires suck the blood out of everyone in Bon Temps. The New: Liberals suck the blood out of everything in Washington.
	
	Why do we put up with Putin?
	My family used to own a business in Ukraine. Now they own a business in Russia. No, they didn't move, but the political mood did when Crimea became part of Russia.
	In February, Vladimir Putin put unmarked, masked forces on the ground in Ukraine, turning the rest of the world into helpless fools. No one could definitively say if they were Russian soldiers or not. Right.
	On Thursday, a Buk missile system was smuggled from Russia into Ukraine. Later that day, pro-Russian dissidents committed an unthinkable act of terrorism and shot down a commercial airliner using a Buk, which they bragged about.
	Putin can't put black masks on the perpetrators this time because he's one of them. Time for us to take our masks off, too. He's no longer just a thug — he's now a war criminal.
	If ever a guy should wear a disguise to cover his ignorance, it's News 12 New Jersey reporter Sean Bergin.
	The reporter, who is neither black nor a single mother, said, "The underlying cause of all of (anti-cop hatred), of course: young black men growing up without fathers. Unfortunately, no one in the news media has the courage to touch that subject."
	Maybe that's because it's completely without basis.
	Then, in his own defense, Bergin said he'd gone "off the reservation" — another slur of an ethnic group with which he has no affiliation.
	Unless this yutz grows a pair — of breasts, I mean — or changes the color of his skin, he hasn't a clue. As a single mother, his remarks disgust me.
	Sorry, Sean, you're no Bill O'Reilly, and the plump, fiery white guy role is already occupied by Rush Limbaugh.
	Mayor de Blasio correctly postponed his family trip to Italy after the horrific choking death of Eric Garner, and he probably should stay through the funeral. However, earlier, the media was all over him for not canceling the family trip to Italy because of the looming LIRR strike. No. The mayor doesn't control the MTA, and only recommends four of 22 appointments on the board. One reporter noted that Rudy Giuliani, critical of de Blasio's decision, had himself been so busy as mayor that he didn't even have time for his family. Right. Only for his mistress.
	The Times of India reported that archeologists in Chhattisgarh have confirmed that cave paintings of UFOs and aliens (of the outer space kind) decked out in space suits are about 10,000 years old. Since, shockingly, Chhattisgarh doesn't have any UFOlogists on er, board there, they are bringing in NASA. What? Why don't they call on Giorgio Tsoukalos and Erich von Daniken? Not only would "Ancient Aliens" pay for the research, we loyal viewers could discover once and for all whether Giorgio's hair is alien or human. Better: If that shirt that "Aliens" contributor David Childress never takes off is also 10,000 years old.
	Oh, those nutty Calis. A new female lubricant, Foria, made with cannabis oil, is now on the market — but only in California. The pot lube is supposed to relax women and lead to multiple orgasms. And remember, if you bring it to New York, do not smoke it — not even for medicinal purposes.