Here goes an admission. Nearly eighteen months ago as part of the replacement of our 1960s kitchen, we installed a pyrolytic oven - the type that magically cleans itself by literally charring the life out of the grease and food splatters, turning them into to a tidy little pile of ash.At the same time we also chose a corian (acrylic) benchtop, rather then the more popular stone option. ("Why?", I hear you ask. We liked that it was completely seamless, warmer to touch and that the kids wouldn't be in danger of re-creating a Greek wedding every time they thumped, err ...  placed, a plate down on the bench).Ever since, I've been nervously wondering whether it as a wise decision to install a device that heats up to 500 degrees under a slab of what is essentially plastic.Ridiculous as it sounds, I've been too concerned to actually turn the pyro function on lest the "solid" benchtop suddenly melts. Call it actively avoiding buyer's remorse, while suffering buyer's remorse.Hence we've been letting the grease and grime building up in the oven ever since, thinking "one day".Considering you're supposed to clean these ovens every month or so, that's a lot of grime.But this week it all came to a head. When just opening the oven door released a plume of smoke that set the fire alarm off, it was time to bit the bullet. Or hit the pyro button, as the matter may be.Preparing the oven to be sizzled took all of two minutes - we just clipped out the wire side racks, which aren't enamelled and won't cope with the heat.Then the moment of truth arrived.I nervously hovered, fire blanket clearly in my line of sight.I checked the benchtop for any signs of excessive heat. An hour later I was still checking. Nothing, except a slight warmness around one edge of the cooktop, as though a hot pie had been left sitting on the bench for a few minutes.The extra insulation required inside the pyrolytic oven was obviously working.Meanwhile the oven was belching so much hot air out of its front vent that it felt like a Melbourne heatwave at the height of summer.Amazingly, thanks to the quadruple layers of glass that are now common in many new ovens, the door was still cool enough to touch, despite the 500 degrees inside the cavity.And the best thing? Two hours later, when the oven had finished frying itself and cooled down enough for its door to unlock, the inside was sparkling.All the black greasy surfaces had been instantly restored to their shining grey, enamelled glory - which was a shock as we'd forgotten what colour the oven interior even was.All that was needed was a quick wipe out with a damp cloth.It was oven heaven.Just like frost-free fridges have become de rigueur (for anyone who remembers having to defrost the fridge!), self-cleaning ovens are such a refreshing change to the kitchen that they are on the path to becoming standard.Although pyrolytic ovens still attract somewhat of a premium, there are now options on the market for under $1000 and the technology is starting to creep into freestanding cookers, too.When you consider the hours saved scrubbing the oven, not to mention the fact there's no need to use nasty cleaning sprays ever again, the extra dollars could just be worth it.There's also the added benefit that the extra insulation required for the cleaning mode makes the oven more energy-efficient during normal baking.There's a lot to love.