When Lorelle Donohue sold her home of two decades and moved into villa, her neighbours were devastated. They had taken holidays together, and watched each other's children grow up."When we first moved to Bangor [in southern Sydney] we had no fences and our kids used to run from house to house and play with each other and we had barbecues and things," says Donohue's former next door neighbour Karen Jeffery.  "As the time goes on, the fences go up, but you still see your neighbours, we were very close to them."Karen and her husband Gary were looking to sea change and downsize out of their four-bedroom home too. They were happy to find a three-bedroom apartment off the plan at Woollooware Bay, just a suburb in from Sydney's Cronulla.But it was only over dinner recently that the firm friends discovered they were going to be neighbours again - unbeknownst to each other, both had bought an off the plan apartment at the large development, which will be built near the Cronulla Sharks rugby league club. Both women couldn't be happier to discover they get to be neighbours again.It's stories like Lorelle's and Karen's that remind you that if you want to create a friendly community, the best place to start is your own neighbourhood.It's a message that has seemingly resonated with Australians with the 11 annual neighbour day being celebrated this Sunday. What started as a letter to the editor more than a decade ago suggesting a "National Check on Your Neighbour Day" has now become a national event.Melbourne man Andrew Heslop was inspired to suggest the day after he read about the tragic discovery of an elderly woman who had laid dead in her own home for two years - forgotten by her neighbours, friends and family.Heslop's suggestion has evolved from a "check on your neighbours" day to "host a neighbourly event".Senior Australian of the Year, the Hon Fred Chaney AO, and Gardening Australia's Costa Georgiadis are both national ambassadors for Neighbour Day, and there are plans to take the concept overseas.In my own neighbourhood we're going to meet at a local playground for afternoon tea. The kids can run off some steam and the adults can chat. We don't get together to do that nearly enough and it's a shame really.Admittedly it's been hastily organised this week, but better late than never!Others might host a breakfast, lunch, game of sport or a street party. Whatever they do, it's not about being serious but about looking out for each other. And there's some unexpected benefits to befriending your neighbours, as Lorelle Donohue points out."Karen is going to have a great view from her apartment, so I'm really looking forward to having a few wines with my friend looking out over Sydney," says Lorelle, of once again becoming neighbours with her friend of nearly three decades. 