Planning a street party this Christmas? If you've got romantic notions of closing off the road out the front of your house, kicking the soccer ball around, or swinging a cricket bat, you may have already missed the boat.Along with unfurling the tinsel and filling the esky with ice, you'll probably need to wade through a fair amount of red tape to get your event off the ground if it involves a road closure. require at least eight weeks notice for a street closure, even for a community Christmas party.Others are also asking residents to pay for permits and public liability insurance, which can mount up to a few hundred dollars - and raise the ire of local residents.But after being accused of being Christmas grinches last year, other councils,, have had an about-face and are going to reasonable lengths to encourage street parties - cutting planning time to three weeks, waiving permit costs and providing public liability cover.In Sydney, Manly Council requires residents wanting to hold a street party that involves a road closure to fill in a form six weeks prior to their event and "attend a brief 'Meet Your Street' Induction Workshop to enable your event to be covered by Manly Council's Public Liability Insurance". A council spokesman says the workshop takes about half an hour.You can understand if it all feels a bit much.But there is another way - turning over your front yard or yards to an event.Last year that is exactly what our street did. Having not had a street party in years - or perhaps ever - it took just one generous family to instigate a get together.Everyone brought a plate, their own drinks and a chair. The hosts supplied the tables and some ice bins. And nearly a year on we're still reaping the benefits with a more familiar atmosphere in the neighbourhood and a few barriers broken down.There wasn't exactly cricket in the street but there was a visit from Santa (with a sackful of pre-arranged gifts) and plenty of friendly chatter.And with only five weeks to go until Christmas, it's time to do it all again.Here's five tips that we learnt from our experience1. Start planning now and give out invitations as early as possible.2. Check with local council if you are planning to hold the party in the street - you may need to lodge an application and pay fees. Otherwise, if you have them, front yard/s are good neutral spaces.3. Keep it simple - have guests all contribute something so there's not too much pressure on any one person.4. If people in your street don't know each other that well, name tags can be a helpful icebreaker.5. The effort it takes to organise it will be worth it - there's a lot to be said for getting along with your neighbours.