For months now I've noticed this funny little graph on the right of the page when log into my bank accounts.Usually in a rush to pay a bill or check a transfer, I've never really bothered to take a look. Until this week, that is. And I discovered a pretty powerful personal finance app that tracks all of our spending for the last two years.Having just completed a renovation that created a large pile of receipts that we planned to one day compile to reveal the horrible truth of exactly how much we really spent, it was eye-opening to see the numbers already aggregated on the screen.Personal budgeting is something we know we should all do - especially once you've got a mortgage and are trying to juggle repayments.There are plenty of online apps that are aimed at helping people track their spending, some that even allow you to pull data from your bank accounts and investments.But I'm surely not the only one who has never got around to seriously investigating what app would work for me let alone having bothered to set it up. Call it laziness or just being snowed under with the all-too-common demands of children, house repayments and work.In Australia, ANZ Bank was the first to roll out a personal budgeting offering. Its free MoneyManager app sits outside of online banking and lets users - whether they are ANZ bank customers or not - track their spending from one website. Users can add bank accounts from a variety of financial institutions.Earlier this year, NAB launched its offering - Money Tracker. It is only available to NAB customers and only aggregates information from your NAB bank accounts, loans and credit cards.The advantages of the NAB offering are you don't need to log into a separate site. The tool pre-assigns your spending but is a bit confused - a hardware item I had purchased was assigned to the dining out category. If only! But the blurb promises that the program learns as it goes and should get better at deciphering transactions.It took a couple of hours to trawl through nearly two years of spending and assign everything to the right categories but going forward I'm assuming I'd need to run my eye over recent entries once a month and make sure everything is in the right spot.The major downside of relying on a personal finance app from your financial institution is that should you want to change providers, you'd presumably have to say good-bye to a lot of the data. But if you're using it just to keep track of recent spending, that probably won't matter too much anyway.The Commonwealth Bank of Australia is said to be trialling various tools for its customers. When asked earlier this year whether it would follow suit, Westpac was non-committal.Given the power that this type of spending tracker would give householders - particularly people first starting out with a mortgage and trying to understand where their money goes - it won't be surprising to see this as a common feature from all financial providers in the not too distant future.