What is the most annoying noise in your neighbourhood?Dogs barking? Kids screaming? Or the incessant noise of an over-enthusiastic gardener armed with a screaming leaf blower?In our area, which until recently was made up of mostly elderly retirees and a couple of young families, there is a new scourge. The wanna-be rock star armed with none other than a drum kit. A really loud one.Personally I blame  Sure it's a show about singing. But all that gooey, overly positive talk about bright futures and exciting times ahead, even for the losers (AKA the lovely Caterina last night - who was certainly the weakest of the four contestants), is giving hope to every would-be muso out there.Our local Tommy Lee feels the need to belt out a few beats on a Sunday. At 9.30 pm. At least it's not midnight, I hear you say. But it's drums, not an acoustic guitar or a lilting flute.Thankfully the said enthusiastic teen/twenty-something lives just enough houses away that the calamity, which at times is passable but often sounds worse than a hammer drill, is reduced to a mere tapping by the time it reaches our place (indoors, that is. Outside is a different matter).It's the direct neighbours I really feel sorry. If I can hear it loud as an AC/DC concert 100 metres down the street, living next door must be fast becoming some sort of mini-hell.One can only hope that the neighbours' hearing capacity has dulled a little over their long years, for their own sake.I do have empathy for drummer because I have to admit that practising a bellowing trumpet after school each day as I did for years must have been pretty annoying for the neighboors, too. If there was a trumpet version of , I most certainly would have been voted off. But I don't recall trilling through  when the neighbours could reasonably be trying to get some sleep.If you've got a noisy neighbour, just what you can do about it depends on where you live.In NSW, residents have cut offs for when they  From Sunday - Thursday, it's 10pm. On Friday and Saturday, it's midnight.There are also limits in  where loud music must cease at 10pm Sunday - Thursday and 11pm on Friday and Saturday. But that ruling doesn't exist in all other states, including South Australia, where there are no such restrictions. Although police in that state do say: "if it is that loud, and causing you a problem you have the right to complain at any time of the day whether it be lunch time, early evening or late at night."I think the drummer might just fit that description.