August has got to the most painful month of winter. By this time of year, it's often not just our bodies (and minds) tiring of the chilly temperatures, our houses can start to show signs of wet days and cold nights - in the nasty form of dampness and mould.Spring might be around the corner, but for many homeowners, especially those in cooler zones, it can't come soon enough.As houses have become more sealed up in recent years to boost energy efficiency, the importance of good ventilation has increased. If your home is suffering from condensation, or worse, mould, here are some tips that could help.Is the moisture coming from inside the home or outside in the form of a leaking roof, rising damp or leaking pipes?Sources of moisture inside the home include cooking, showering/bathing, drying clothes, heating with unflued gas heaters, and, sorry to say, breathing!Cover pans when you are cooking. (It sounds simple but rather than lift the lid a little to let the steam out, turn the heat lower and put the lid on properly.)If you have an exhaust fan or extractor, remember to use it while cooking, and keep it running for a few minutes after to help clear the air.Fans must be ducted out to the outside though - not simply shift air away from the stove top. We once had fan that simply fed back into the room. Needless to say it was useless, and it wasn't really surprising that mould begin to form on a nearby ceiling with all that warm moist air blowing straight towards it.Consider opening a window to let some fresh air in during or after cooking, even if only for 10 minutes.Close the door when showering or bathing to contain the steam.Turn your exhaust fan on, or consider installing a steam sensor, such as the one from . They really do work.Leave the door shut and the exhaust fan running for about 15 minutes after showering (if you install the steam sensor mentioned above, you'll find it keeps the fan running for 15-20 minutes after the shower is finished until the steam clears fully).Open up a window to let the moist air escapeWhere possible hang wet washing outside to dry.If you are using clothes racks to dry clothes, look at whether you can put them in a garage, shed or undercover outdoor area.If you do dry clothes indoors, do it in the laundry or bathroom with the door shut and ventilate the room via an exhaust fan or window.If you have a clothes dryer that can be ducted, do so. Or look for a condenser model that collects moisture in the unit itself.For models that cannot be ducted, shut the laundry door and open a window or turn on an exhaust fan when the dryer is running.Unflued gas heaters can introduce moisture into the home. If you are using an unflued gas heater, ensure the home is adequately ventilated to compensate for the increased moisture levels and the pollutants released by the heater.Refrigerated air-conditioners and ducted gas systems do the opposite and help to dry the air out as well as heating it.Indoor plants can also be a source of moisture. If you have condensation or mould problems in your home, consider minimising the number of plants inside, or having none at all.Condensation forms on surfaces when there is an excess level of moisture in the air. This can occur when humidity levels are higher than 60 per cent in a home.Moist air created in one room can end up as condensation in another room.Relative humidity inside a home should ideally be between 30 and 50 per cent.Digital thermometers often measure humidity as well and can be found in hardware stores for less than $50. Many are battery operated and can simply be moved around the home.If you spot condensation in your home, it's a good idea to wipe it away with a towel or similar to dry the surface off, then air out the room by opening windows and doors, or use mechanical ventilation (an exhaust fan).If you have a ceiling fan, run it on winter mode (in reverse - many fans have a switch on them for this) on low speed, as this will force warmer air down the walls and aid the drying process.If you have mould forming, it can be cleaned with detergent and water and then treated with a natural remedy including the following sprays. Straight white vinegar (spray it on and leave it to dry); tea tree oil (mix one teaspoon of oil to one cup water, spray mouldy areas and leave to dry), or grapefruit seed extract (mix 10 drops per cup of water in a spray bottle, spray mouldy areas and leave to dry).The cheapest way to keep you home well ventilated is to open up windows and doors when the weather is warmer during the day. But if the daytime weather is cold or you won't be home, this may not always be practical.Installing window locks that allow windows to only be opened slightly (no more than 12.5 cm so small children ) can make it easier to air out the home.Another way to ventilate the property without investing in extra equipment is to run your exhaust or extractor fans a bit more than usual.Alternatively, look at a more permanent option of whole house ventilation. In Australia, whole house ventilation is a fledgling market that appears to be gaining traction.There are two main types of ventilation - air exchangers, which take the air from inside the home and replace it at the same or similar temperature, or heat recovery systems, which draw warm filtered air from either the roof cavity or glass or polycarbonate boxes mounted on the outside roof or an external sunny wall.In summer many of these systems can also expel hot air from inside the home, and draw cool night air into the home. Brands include , ,  and .We have a Smartbreeze at our home, which is just coming into its own now the shoulder season is hitting with sunnier days. For more details about this system, Choice recently took a look at  - which dry out the air - and their test results varied wildly. Some systems were very good at reducing moisture levels, others not so. The two products Choice recommended were Dry Home DH24 ($880) and Omega Altise ODE20 ($430).