If you want to get your kids into the garden, it helps to make it an interesting space to be in.Last week we talked about  with tree houses, climbing ropes and the like. Now the focus shifts to what's on the ground level.When it comes to plants and garden design, here are 10 ways to add some child-friendly touches in your garden.It might seem sacrilegious in the land of backyard cricket and barbecues, but large stretches of lawn-only are often not the most interesting spaces for kids.Places to hide, investigate and let imaginations run wild can be created when some of the lawn is taken up to make way for other plants.That's not to say, if you are blessed to have enough space, that all of the lawn has to disappear - kids do love the chance to wrestle, kick a ball around and generally just loll, and grass is perfect for those activities.Louise McDaid, a landscape designer for Eden By Design, says kids love foliage they can run in and out of, and play hide-and-seek. McDaid recommends a native acacia - . This small tree has a weeping habit perfect for kids to weave through.McDaid recommends using plants that are inviting to touch, including Woolly Bush (), Lamb's Ear () and Spiral Ginger (), which she says "has leaves with undersides that feel like cashmere".Once they have an idea, kids want to run with it immediately. So it helps if they have easy access to their toys and treasures. But the challenge is how to keep everything on hand without the garden looking like a toy shop."Storage is important in a garden that is shared with kids," says founder of Landart Landscapes, and a host on Channel Nine's The Garden Gurus."It is nice to have a space that - when the kids have gone to bed - you can sit and have a relaxing drink without having to look at a war zone full of plastic shrapnel."Leacy's ideas include installing a trapdoor in a deck to stow toys underneath, or building a timber bench seat with a lift-up lid so it can double as storage."Just make sure you don't make the lid or trapdoor too heavy as it needs to be functional, you may consider installing a gas strut to make it easier," he says.Or if you want a lazy way out, there's plenty of bench seats with inbuilt storage boxes on the market, such as.One way to encourage kids to grow plants is to assign them their very own area of the garden.Caroline Roberts, a primary school teacher and owner of Gardening 4 Kids, says giving children their own space to garden in will increase their sense of ownership and pride."It may be a bare patch of dirt, a planter box or even a garden pot that they can use to grow their own plants," she says.Let children choose their own plants, but guide them to things that are colourful, large and quick to produce results, advises Roberts."Good examples are radishes, carrots, pumpkins, sunflowers and peas," she says."Kids are also fascinated with edible flowers." Try growing marigolds, fuchsias, nasturtiums and lavender.For younger kids, it can be great to provide children with their own set of gardening tools, gloves and watering can. Hardware stores usually have inexpensive sets for littlies.When they're not riding in the Mum or Dad's wheelbarrow, smaller children will appreciate having their own wheelbarrow. It will be handy for carting all manner of things around - such as toys, dirt, rocks, and even brothers and sisters.Whether it's hopscotch pavers (you can make your own, with 10 pavers and some paving paint), or outdoor games, there are plenty of ways to spark kids' imaginations in the outdoors. sells oversized chess pieces with nylon mats - or you could created a permanent "board" from two tones of paving, or paving paint on cement. Games start from $139.Or consider using a t to create an outdoor drawing area. It can be painted onto a variety of surfaces.Little kids often love sandpits, but for something a bit more natural looking, that you'll be happy to keep well after the kids have outgrown sand play, a dry river with various size rocks and sand can do the trick.To create a dry river or creek, dig out the shape first, and consider lining with weed matting to help keep any weeds at bay.Then layer your "creek material" including pebbles, rocks and sand to get the effect you want.Planting some hardy natural grasses at the edge can soften the look.  looks good next to rocks and pebbles.For extra fun, make it a real water feature. You will need all the appropriate supplies like waterproof lining, water source at one end and a pump at the other end of course. And be really careful to always supervise children around water.There is something completely magical as a child about chilling out in the backyard in summer, nonchalantly picking ripe fruit and wiling away the hours nibbling at it. Or alternatively, using it as a weapon in a fight with your brother...Good options for kids - and smaller backyards - include some of the dwarf fruit varieties now on the market. Check out this Keeping fruit trees small means they will be at a better picking height for younger children, and will also not dominate the garden. If you have the room, you might even consider planting several varieties to provide a range of fruit year-round.