What is Australia's most annoying garden plant? Is it the rubber tree, left to go wild in the garden and send out its thirsty roots to infiltrate nearby water pipes? Or are there others that are even worse?Yesterday we completed the second round of tree-clearing at our place. Since moving in a bit over a year ago we've cut down about 30 trees and big shrubs, and taken out plenty of other smaller things. That's a lot considering it's a fairly average suburban block, not an acreage.Unfortunately it now looks a bit like Armageddon, and the view from the kitchen window has gone from green hedge to the neighbour's rubbish bins. It's a nice sight at breakfast.At first, we were enchanted by the urban jungle - until we realised that none of it really fit. Take the two metre-high plumbago that was planted under two big feature trees. Sure it is pretty and a hardy plant, but its height and ragged look when it was cut back made the whole thing resemble a dog's breakfast.And then there was the mishmash hedge made of up a deciduous crab apple, a cumquat and some lilli pillis. The latter are lovely trees, and native to boot, but one had turned into just that - a tree  - and another two were well on their way. They had to go, along with the non-hedge-friendly crab apple. The cumquat won the right to stay, though.Lilly Van Epen, a horticulturalist and designer at Green Rooms in Sydney, says one of the most pesky plants to get rid of is wisteria (yes, we had some of that, too)."It is a stunning plant, absolutely divine but it's a pain in the you know what to try and get rid of," she says."If you keep it clipped and pruned, then you're not going to have too much of a problem. But as soon as you let it get out of hand, and then you try and rip it out, it suffers and it pops up absolutely everywhere."Strelitzia, or bird of paradise, is another plant that makes Van Epen shudder if it has been ignored.While they look fantastic, she says, left to their own devices they tend to take over."If you let it go, you'll be breaking your back to try and get it out," she says.Running bamboo, although banned by many councils and no longer stocked by most retailers, is still causing gardeners and landscapers plenty of headaches. And some clumping varieties have a tendency to wander too, says Van Epen."There's certain species which are quite specialised, they've got a maximum clumping, they don't get out of control," says Van Epen."But bamboo in itself, whether it's clumping or running, once it's established, can be a bit of a pain to remove as well."   