As John Fogerty of Creedence Clearwater Revival fame sang the blues in Byron Bay on the weekend, the atmosphere was upbeat but the crowd numbers were down. The 22-year-old Bluesfest still held its charm, however, there was definitely more room to move with fewer feet on the ground.Further afield in the property market, the feeling along the coast is quite similar. The beaches and hinterland are just as beautiful as they ever were, but with the tourism industry still suffering and the construction sector grinding to a near standstill, prices have been falling since the global financial crisis hit.Take  in Kingscliff, 40 kilometres south of the Gold Coast. It's now on the market for $319,000 - a whopping $250,000 below its original purchase price. And there's plenty of other price drops of  or Time on market in Byron Bay has blown out to a  and the term "drastically reduced" remains   continue to be seen, too.Even the agents are openly acknowledging the price drops. Take  up for auction this weekend. In the agent's words, the Currumbin Valley, in south-east Queensland, is "becoming much more affordable these days".The ad goes on: "The owner of this fine property is in urgent need to return to Sydney and therefore, she has to sell it very quickly."And while there is an auction scheduled for this home, the vendor is keen to get the deal done as soon as they can: "Don't wait for the auction to buy this. Make an offer now" the advertisement screams.Many would say it had to happen. In regions where price growth was fuelling price growth, as opposed to strong  economic fundamentals underpinning the expansion, house prices were  reaching dizzying heights.Prices boomed in many parts of Australia's coast to such heights that, had the GFC not come along to deflate the bubble, the markets did look in serious danger of bursting at some stage.But in amongst the broken dreams so plainly and painfully on show, perhaps the downturn saved our coastal areas from devouring themselves entirely.Just as the metropolitan markets have been busy (AKA dropping in price), so to have the coastal regions.Greg Allan, director and licensee of Ray Real Estate, sells on the NSW north coast, in the Kingscliff area. After four years of pain, he believes the market may have finally bottomed out. Allan has recently been selling blocks of land in the area for between $200,000 and $320,000."Pre GFC they would have been $450,000 to $700,000," he says.Interestingly, Allan says the buyers now are all locals. With the Brisbanites and Sydneysiders out of the picture, prices are getting back to more realistic levels.Whether the coastal market has stopped falling or not remains to be seen. In the meantime, vendors having to sell far below their expectations (and in some cases purchasing prices), are wondering, much like John Fogerty, "Who'll stop the rain".