Drive around suburbia and you'll quickly notice that the trend in roofing is dark, dark, dark. Black. Charcoal. Woodland Grey, or for a touch of blue, Deep Ocean.Red is definitely out, and has been for some time.And we've been hearing for a while about a to paint roofs white, or at least light. If not light, then with reflective paint to help reduce the absorption of heat in summer.This extends to building regulations such as It makes perfect sense, especially in parts of Australia where the summers are hot (that's most of Australia, although if you looked at this summer only, you'd argue that that doesn't extend to Sydney), to think about making roof colours lighter.However, the argument is never black and white. Or Ironstone and Dune. Just how much of an effect the colour of your roof will have on the comfort inside your home will depend on a number of factors, including insulation levels and ventilation.For the past year or so I've been tossing up what to do with an existing red-roofed home. Back in September I visited a few homes for  to see what other people were up to.Some had rainwater tanks, north-facing windows, double-glazing and thick curtains. Many had polished cement floors for the high thermal mass they offer.But one had something that seemed to make good sense. A solar roof collector. The home owner had installed a at the recommendation of his air-conditioning supplier.It was the second property this particular house owner had put it into after liking the product so much in his first house, for the way that it was able to help to warm the house in winter and cool it in summer.Although not a replacement for the air-conditioner in the sense that on a stinking hot day or freezing one you may still need some cooling or heating, the theory with this group of products is they can assist in cooling down the house overnight in summer, and warming it during the day in winter. Some also exhaust the hot air from the roof space in summer, in much the same way that a whirlybird would.There are two different types of heating/cooling systems that draw on the sun's own heat and make use of the cool night air. Brands such as  and , which bring in fresh air from outside, via big glass collectors that heat the air on cool days when the sun is shining before passing it into the house.The other category of products uses the air that has warmed up inside the roof space itself, drawing it from the roof peak, or in the case of colorbond rooves, from between the metal and the sarking. Some examples are Solectair and At first, the thought of drawing air from inside the roof space held no appeal to me - after all if you've ever had to climb into one you'll know what dusty dirty environments they can be. But the air is drawn from the peak of the roof via a filter so is well away from the scarier part of the roof. It is then vented into the house through a foil air-conditioning duct and one to three vents.After much debate and baulking at the high cost, we tossed up between a SolaMate (quoted at $3866, delivery only. Not installed.) and a SmartBreeze ($3410 installed).Considerations were that one device draws on clean air from outside versus sucking and filtering from the roof space, and the obvious cost difference. The clincher though was the amount of north-facing roof space that panel collectors require to be installed. Whether we wanted collectors or not, we simply didn't have the room thanks to the tiles already being slathered in solar panels and a big solar hot water heater.So this week we have taken the plunge with a Smartbreeze unit. Considering the big wad of cash that this baby costs, we're certainly hoping it delivers by keeping us comfortable in the shoulder seasons of autumn and spring, and reducing the need for heating and cooling in summer and winter.We've opted for a single vent in the middle of the home, in an area that does not benefit from cooling night cross breezes, or warming northerly or westerly winter sun, but is at the junction of several rooms where it can spread its love.The unit looks good - a neat circular vent and a smart-looking wired, wall-mounted thermostat. And the outside equipment - a roof mounted solar panel to drive the extractor during the day, is reasonably unobtrusive.And as for the roof colour. It's still red. But it does have me wondering whether, rather than white roofs, we should be putting more effort into researching roofs that can  to match the season or even how to make better use of the trend for darker-coloured roofs.