How far we've come in just a week. Last Tuesday morning, most people were banking on a rate cut - and in fact we've ended up with out-of-cycle rises by all four major banks and at least five smaller lenders. And with the ANZ Bank now rolling out its own decision at a set time each month, we could be in for some lengthy wait times in each of the coming months to see which way rates will go.The Reserve Bank makes its announcement on the first Tuesday of every month and ANZ isn't wheeling out its move until the second Friday, which means a wait of at least three days - as happened last week, and as will occur again in March - or 10 days as will be the case in April when the first Tuesday falls on the 3rd and the second Friday isn't until the 13th.This month, the other big three lenders waited for ANZ to announce its move before following suit with similar increases. And given last week's call by National Australia Bank that it would undercut its main competitors' variable rate for the rest of the year, it was, unsurprisingly, the last bank to move with an increase. And until Christmas, you'd expect to continue seeing NAB as the last bank off the blocks.So where does that leave borrowers? Slightly confused? Yes. Powerless? No.If ever the banks were going to start breaking the cycle for rate rises, now isn't necessarily a terrible time from a consumer perspective, thanks to  about what rates are available in the market, and the relative ease for many to switch providers and make up the cost of doing so by negotiating a lower interest rate from their new lender.When it comes to whether or not people will actually refinance for a better deal though, that's a different story. There doesn't seem to be strong evidence in any of the data showing a rush on refinances.The reasons why people don't switch range from being scared of how long it will take, worried about the potential costs of refinancing, saddled with a high loan-to-value ratio that required either mortgage insurance or a guarantor to step in, or satisfied with the product and service they already have. Another factor that can put people off is the bother of switching direct debits and the like around.But in many cases, refinancing probably isn't as hard as many people think.I've just completed the process of switching myself. The reasons for switching were twofold. We wanted to increase our borrowings slightly to cover some minor renovations, while at the same time reduce our interest rate. We had already negotiated a pretty good rate with our existing lender - but the offer of a loan 16 basis points lower was even better.There were even lower rates in the market, as revealed by , but many did not suit as they didn't offer the loan features we wanted such as an offset account, where we could use funds in our savings account to offset the mortgage. Or for one lender, both borrowers had to have a PAYE salary, whereas in our case one of us is self-employed.The actual work involved to refinance took no more than a day. First up was gathering together evidence of incomes, tax returns and assets. I then met with the lender's rep, who helped complete the forms over coffee.The process of refinancing took about six weeks from start to finish, including the Christmas holidays and allowing time for a home valuation on the existing property to take place.In terms of what it cost - not really very much in the scheme of things - less than $2000. But an incentive from the new lender of $1000 to switch took care of half of it.Had our loans been older than four years and not subject to exit fees (now banned on all loans created since July 1 2011), the cost would have been closer to $600, and with the $1000 lender's incentive, we would have actually finished $400 in front, not to mention the savings on rates.All in all, the administrative pain of getting your documents together, filling in some forms and swapping some direct debits was very small when we are talking  over the life of the loan.The very sweet part is that having switched now to loans that will attract no exit fee thanks to the Federal Government's ban last year, it won't be that hard - or expensive - to move again should there be a cheaper or better-suited offering elsewhere.