Three times in my early journalism career — at three different companies — I was sexually harassed. Two of the experiences came during internships and one occurred in my first permanent newspaper job. It was the late 1970s. Harassment by men in my field of work was pretty much standard operating procedure; sometimes, it was groping and pinching, other times, it was innuendo.Back in those days, I'd describe my physical appearance as plain vanilla and my understanding of appropriate workplace boundaries as plain ignorant.Thank goodness, newsrooms changed. Out-of-bounds behavior and comments are relatively rare — so rare in fact that when I do run into harassment or sexist remarks, it's startling. But all these years later, I can still recount, with microscopic detail, those early episodes and the shame I wound up carrying around as a result.So reading this article by Olivia Messer in the Texas Observer over the weekend, "The Texas Legislature's Sexist Little Secret," made me so sad — and then so mad. Messer writes about her experiences covering the 2013 regular session and what she encountered in terms of being "objectified or patronized." Messer compared work to fending off advances "like I was in a bar."She writes: "What surprised me was how many women who work in the Capitol — legislators, staffers, lobbyists, other reporters — felt the same way.  Everyone it seemed had a story or anecdote."Messer suggests that the makeup of the Legislature — women account for more than half the state's population but only 20 percent of the Legislature — could be a contributing factor for the atmosphere. Houston Republican Joan Huffman put it this way: "It's probably the last of the good ol' boys clubs."The examples in the article range from porn on laptops to Sen Troy Fraser telling Wendy Davis that he couldn't understand what she was saying because he "can't hear women's voices." The following two examples seem to best capture Messer's article:During the House budget debate in April, Brenham Republican Lois Kolkhorst and Austin Democrat Dawnna Dukes were debating an amendment. As the debate intensified, their male colleagues in the chamber started meowing and making angry-cat noises. Several times each session, men in the House will make cat noises when two women are debating.And this:In April, Sen. Judith Zaffirini brought a proposal to the floor. The Senate was discussing an omnibus bill on the Texas Preservation Board, and she wanted to allow lactation suites in the Capitol, where women could breast feed or pump. Amarillo Republican Kel Seliger introduced a farcical amendment to make those lactation suites part of Zaffirini's office. "It's not funny. It's not funny. It's not funny," Zaffirini muttered to herself.Leticia Van De Putte on the Senate floor during the Wendy Davis filibuster. (GIFs via Stelmarias/Tumblr)I contacted two young women who have worked in different capacities in the Legislature — and both of whom I knew would tell me the truth. Both had the same reaction to my my question about the "Sexist Little Secret" story: Yes, it's accurate. One told me of being warned along the lines of, "You better watch out or you're going to find yourself pregnant before the session is up with all the lawmakers walking around." The other, despite being a well-educated policy specialist, spent a lot of her time "cutting cakes and being the office housekeeper."I've sent the Texas Observer article around to everyone on our staff to read, and I hope our editorial board will decide to write on this topic. Too often, when I finally gathered the courage to report the incidents I experienced as a young woman in the workplace, my stories were met with disbelief. "You must be exaggerating. XX wouldn't do that" was the common feedback.Chilling to think that the same message is being sent to young women more than 35 years later.

Follow @SharonFGrigsby
