Just how do you pay your loan down sooner? A few weeks ago we talked  about the importance of keeping your interest rate where it is and not taking up the chance to splash the extra cash provided by an official rate cut. I also mentioned that you are usually better to pay your interest payments fortnightly, and not monthly.A reader wrote to me asking for an expanded piece on just how do you pay down your mortgage sooner, and wanting to bust some of the myths around mortgage payment times.This is what the reader, Richard, had to say:  "The little snippet about making fortnightly payments irks me because it is a very common 'insider's tip' but is never explained carefully or accurately.  Just reading comments by other readers too there is obviously confusion - someone boasts that weekly repayments are even better than fortnightly without qualification?"I am referring to the need to consider income timing.  For example, what good is it for someone like me on a monthly salary withholding half a payment for two weeks?  If you get paid monthly you're best off making the largest possible payment the day you get paid.  If you get paid weekly then you could consider weekly payments, etc."Your comments about making an extra payment (because of the 26 fortnights versus 12 months) also depends on the actual amount paid. It only holds true if you pay 'half your monthly amount fortnightly' and not if you take the fortnightly amount calculated by the bank."Richard, the reader, is right. If you get paid monthly, there's no point parking half your income in a separate, unrelated, account and making fortnightly repayments on your mortgage - you need to get your money against your loan as soon as you can.You can either do this by putting the money into your actual loan as soon as you get paid, or by putting it into an offset account that sits against your mortgage and reduces your interest bill.But if you are paying monthly rather than fortnightly, try to pay more off each time so that you achieve the same benefits of someone paying fortnightly.The main aim of the game, if you want to shrink your mortgage, is simply to pay off as much as you can. There's no magic tricks, it's purely about reducing your spending and tipping any extra cash you may have into your loan.How everyone saves money will be individual to them, but for some tips on saving, see  where I doled out a few ideas, and readers offered plenty of their own.One big thing you can do is check whether your loan is really the one for you. "There may be features attached to it you are not utilising or are paying a premium for," says Kristy Sheppard from Mortgage Choice. "A regular home loan health check is a great way to see if you are making the most of your existing loan or if you are better suited to a different lender and/or product. Before switching, carefully weigh up the pros and cons by comparing loan features, rate, repayment type and frequency, accessibility, fees and more."Competition has been hotting up among lenders and recent finance figures show no reason for this to abate. While lending for housing rose slightly - by 0.6 cent - in September, that same month total new lending commitments (housing, personal, commercial and lease finance) fell 6.2 per cent.And as CommSec chief economist Craig James points out, for housing "a cannibalisation of the existing loans has been the main driver rather than a pick-up in new borrowing activity". So if you want a better interest rate deal or terms, you could expect your lender might ball.