The pink of October has faded away, to be replaced by the light blue of Prostate Cancer Awareness Month - probably best known as "Movember", when sponsored moustaches are grown to raise funds for research into Prostate and Testicular cancers.All too often men feel that interest in cancers specific to them lags behind the - seemingly - over-awareness of breast cancer. It may look that way, but it is surprising how many people are as unaware of the symptoms, the treatment and the long-term effects of breast cancer, as they are of prostate or testicular cancer.For the latter, it is all a question of finding the right way to focus the minds of the male sex. There are some extremely talented people who are working to bring to raise awareness but do we need more?Last year, the actor, Neil Stuke - whose character, Billy Lamb, the Clerk in the BBC Series "Silk" developed prostate cancer - brought together Ray Winstone, Charles Dance, Tamzin Outhwaite and John Simm to make the short film "Father's Day". It was a brilliant, powerful and beautifully performed film - but shown only on ITV4 at 11.45 pm. I have not seen it since, although it can still be viewed on the internet, but it needs to be shown again and again - and at a much earlier time. I hope those who saw it might have been inspired to form more support groups.As Neil said "Men are not like women, who are incredibly committed to beating cancer. We are so far behind. Yet one man dies of prostate cancer every hour. All men need to make themselves more aware of the risks. Real men, who are rather famously unconcerned about their health issues are the sort of men we need to tap into. African Caribbean men are three times more susceptible to prostate cancer. They need to realise that it is OK to talk about it."Then there is Men United versus Prostate Cancer. My husband wears a Men United pin on his jacket and is asked constantly "What is that?". He explains and the answer is always "What a great idea" - but I wonder how many who enquire actually log on to the website, take the test and add their names to the campaign? Since its launch earlier this year - 'kicked off' at The Football League Headquarters by the comic Bill Bailey - 197,323 have joined the team but have they "wised up to their risk, manned up to face it and stepped up to demand better care"? If prostate cancer is going to have the same profile as breast cancer, men need to rise up, form support groups and start campaigning.Crusaders RFC is a global rugby club whose players have either had cancer themselves or have a family member with the disease. Raising awareness of male cancers and supporting each other is the aim of the club - "There is always someone on the end of the phone or over a beer who knows how you are feeling. You are not alone".The Club fields teams of Vets and Golden Oldies and insists "You are never too old or to knackered to play, you just think you are!!" This is support in action.The Club's Ambassador is former Scotland Captain, Eric Peters, whose experience with Testicular Cancer persuaded him of the necessity to discuss issues and problems without it being seen as a weakness. Until he had completed chemotherapy, he was too embarrassed to even tell his team mates. He says "Once I had explained my absence, it lifted the taboo on the subject and it became an open topic of discussion."Eric Peters is now also the Vice Chairman of Orchid - the charity which is dedicated to pioneering research into and promoting awareness of prostate, testicular and penile cancers."Tackle" is the new face for the Prostate Cancer Support Federation's campaign to support early detection and better treatment for the disease. Run by patients for patients, Tackle acts as the voice of those affected by the disease and is the umbrella for over 60 UK support groups, working to encourage the formation and development of yet more. The website hosts an interactive map showing the support groups; a Help Line number - 0845 601 0766; information about its Early Detection Campaign and the small grants it can offer, leaflets and information sheets, conferences and workshops.The charity will be hosting events during the last week of November at Victoria and Waterloo Stations in London. The aim is to encourage people to log on to the website to find information about prostate cancer, identify local support or learn how to become involved and help the cause. There is a draw called, suitably, "The Winning Tackle", with prizes of a signed England rugby shirt or a Harlequins shirt and tickets.As Mark Dainter of Crusaders said "Quite simply, men are dying from their own ignorance and are scared to get help even when they know they have a problem - burying their head in the sand and hoping it will go away."Perhaps next year, Movember would think of including penile cancer.For information, help and advice please do not be afraid to contact:http://www.tackleprostate.orghttp://www.orchid-cancer-org.ukhttp://www.prostatecanceruk.orgor to don some rugby boots and a pair of red shorts, contact mark@crusadersrugby.org