I'm out of the office next week, so here's my "in absentia" report for Monday of things our staff would be wise to be aware of — or even to write about:1. "Draft of Dallas' gas-drilling ordinance ignores setback requirements proposed by task force and plan commission": When I saw this report out of City Hall Wednesday, compliments of Robert Wilonsky's reporting, my head exploded. The intrigue here is too complicated for me to unpack on a Friday afternoon when I'm still editing daily copy. So let me offer this commentary: Say it's not so. And, since it probably is, I sure hope our editorial board, which has been a leader on this issue, won't let City Hall get away with this. For those of you keeping score, here's the most recent editorial we wrote on what we'd like to see in this ordinance, our editorial from the heat of last spring's battle and one of my blog posts on the issue.2. "Philip Kingston asks whether Dallas' proposed budget is really prudent?" Rudy Bush wrote about Kingston's comments here. Kingston, in effect, calls out our editorial, saying he would call the city's budget one of "not having much choice rather than making prudent ones." Kingston raised a couple of really good questions that I'd like to see our board consider as the council vote nears and the discussion grows this fall about a new city manager:Revenue is growing at a good clip; so where did it all go? Basically to deferred obligations - we spent it already. Our public safety professionals are politely but firmly demanding they get back some of what they gave up during the recession. Streets gets a decent budget increase, but it's to make up for years of neglect. Library, parks, and Arts funding rises but still is inadequate.Peer cities experienced the same downturn we did, yet hardly any raised taxes quite as much, and many have restored and even enhanced services more quickly than Dallas. This budget moves us in the right direction, but most of its features are more a function of not having much choice rather than making prudent ones.I regret missing our editorial board meeting on the budget, so I don't have better answers to Kingston's sensible questions. But perhaps my colleagues who were on hand will have something to say on this matter.

Follow @SharonFGrigsby

