If you want to make a difference to your local environment, one project you could add to the list is to build a rain garden.A concept coming out of the drought that Australia has recently been through, rain gardens filter water coming off hard surfaces in your home before it hits the stormwater system. In urban areas, stormwater pollution is one of the biggest threats to waterways, so what you do at your place could make a real difference.The appealing thing about rain gardens is they are easy to do.Melbourne Water hopes to have homeowners voluntarily build 10,000 rain gardens over the next couple of years. So far, they have 1560 registered gardens. Of course there could also be many others because not every homeowner is going to bother about making their weekend diggings official.A rain garden looks a regular garden bed, except that it has layers of sandy soil beneath, down to about 900 millimetres, and is topped with a gravel mulch.It's a pretty basic concept, and uses nature to filter the water before sending it on its way into the stormwater system. It's also low maintenance.The best thing is, these gardens actually look fantastic. The top layer of the garden is filled with hardy plants - think grasses, kangaroo paw and other tough nuts that love water but can withstand periods of no rain.According to Melbourne Water, a wide range of plants are suitable for rain gardens and your local nursery will be able to guide you on what is right for your area. But there are also particular varieties that are nature's little cleaners and work doubly hard to remove pollutants from stormwater.You should make sure at least half of your plants consist of these. Melbourne Water suggests  ,  (spiny-head mat-rush or basket grass),  (rush) , (a very big shrub or small tree called swamp paperbark), and  (hop goodenia, a bush that can have a straggly look).If you're wondering how to do set up a rain garden, check out these really helpful, I'm planning install two rain gardens at my house - one under the rainwater tank overflow to help manage any excess water should the tank fill and overflow, and one on a downpipe that was too low to go into the tank. That downpipe could easily be set up to flow straight out to the stormwater on the street, but this new rain garden will capture the water first, clean it and then send the excess into the stormwater system.Once the garden is far enough from the home's foundations, I will keep the bottom of the bed unlined so that the water has a chance to soak through into the ground and surrounding soil. I'm hopeful that only in really heavy downpours will we be sending any water off the property.The plan is to match the garden bed with a permeable driveway - to replace the 1950s full concrete version we now have - that will also reduce water runoff.It all goes to show that the little things homeowners do can really make a difference, and sometimes they aren't that difficult.