In a blog post, written last May, I questioned why Ophthalmologists are not warning their patients that failing eyesight might bring with it Charles Bonnet Syndrome. The visual hallucinations which manifest themselves with the condition can be - at the very least - annoying and frustrating, but are often extremely frightening. Too frequently, the condition is misdiagnosed as dementia - which is, of course, what is in the mind of the person and why help is not sought sooner. My late mother lived alone - but with CBS - for far too long before she described to me the faceless people sitting on her sofa. She was in her nineties and the anti-psychotic drugs - which were used at that time, although they now have been replaced by anti-epileptic medication - were not suitable for her and the suggested coping mechanisms required an energy not available to her.This was my second blog post on the subject. Since then, I have been slowly and steadily gathering information in order to add my voice to the Macular Society's current awareness campaign. The Ostrich website is supporting me in my work. I have spoken to the only expert in the UK, Dr Dominic ffytche, who is currently undertaking research into hallucinations of all kinds, with a grant from the National Institute for Health Research - and to Cathy Yelf from The Macular Society. For ten years, the charity has funded research into CBS and has been campaigning to spread the word among health professionals.Last year, the society funded a project led by Dominic ffytche and Thomas Cox, the results of which made two main points. After analysing the questionnaires completed by 4000 members of the Macular Society - covering the phenomenology of CBS, its prognosis, impact, symptom reporting, patient knowledge and sources of information - it became clear that CBS lasts considerably longer than the 18-month figure previously quoted and, for a third of people who suffer visual hallucinations, these have a "negative outcome". Both of these findings applied to my late mother. She was never able to come to terms with the goblin-like creatures, the Victorian street child (clearly starving and dirty), nor the faceless people who inhabited her every waking hour to the end of her life - not to mention the days when her room became a wholly different place or scenes of Edwardian funerals took over the garden. All in total silence. Visually hallucinated people never speak.When my mother moved into an excellent care home, none of the nursing nor care staff had heard of CBS. However, the matron invited me to explain to the team about the syndrome and how it was affecting my mother - after which, the matron was considering a reassessment of some of the people residing in the dementia unit.Indeed, my decision to spend time helping to raise awareness of CBS was made for me when I received a very sad email from a lady in New York. Having read my two blog posts, she wrote that she now realised that there was a distinct possibility that her mother should never have been admitted to a dementia unit - that it seemed much more likely that CBS was the cause of her hallucinations, but that it was too late because her mother had died in the unit.Also reading my blog posts were Chevron Faustin-Holder from Trinidad and Tobago and Diana Best in Canada. Chevron has taken up the challenge to raise awareness in her country and Diana - who wrote originally asking if I could put her in touch with a support group in Canada (answer from me, after researching the question, was that there were none) has just emailed to say that she has managed to achieve her goal and has set up a CBS support group. The Canadian National Institute for the Blind in Toronto (once they became familiar with CBS) has been extremely helpful.Already established in Australia by Scot Muirden, is the Charles Bonnet Syndrome Foundation which not only attempts to "raise the clinical profile" of CBS, but also offers "support services to and for CBS-affected people".If anyone in the UK has already started a support group, or has any other information which would be useful to the campaign, please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk The word needs to be spread through all health care professionals - Opticians, Nurses, GPs, Physicians, Health Visitors, District Nurses, Occupational Therapists, Carers, Podiatrists, Dentists - indeed, anyone who spends time with patients and listens to them talking about their day-to-day life.The Dominic ffytche/Macular Society's research paper was printed in the British Journal of Ophthalmology - a highly respected publication - and I hope sincerely that it was read, marked, learned and inwardly digested by members of the College of Ophthalmology - because, clearly, ophthalmologists need to lead the way. Get the latest comment and analysis from the Telegraph Read more from our news and politics bloggersFollow @TelegraphBlogs