Following my last blog post, I received an email from a lady who had recently been in the USA and had found that Americans were amazed to hear that our NHS treats people whose chosen lifestyles may be the cause of their cancer diagnoses.There are some doctors in the UK who question whether or not it is right to spend the limited funds of the NHS on certain patients. Obesity has recently joined smoking and alcohol in the list of lifestyle choices which are thought to increase the likelihood of developing cancer.The research by The American Institute of Cancer Research/World Cancer Research Fund linked obesity with ovarian cancer. The report analysed 25 population studies - 4 million women, of whom 16,000 developed ovarian cancer - and investigated how diet, weight and activity linked to this disease. The conclusion was that there was a 6 per cent increased risk for every 5-point increase in BMI (a common measure of body fat).Gilda Witte, CEO of Ovarian Cancer Action, said :"We welcome this report and its clear robust recommendations. Knowing there is a link between obesity and ovarian cancer means it is vital to encourage women young and old to adopt a healthy lifestyle to reduce their risk of developing ovarian cancer." I agree with her but not everyone who develops ovarian cancer falls into this category. Surely it is important to stress this point.While it is obviously beneficial - for all sorts of health reasons - not to be overweight, indulge in too much alcohol, or smoke, I am concerned that, with the raised profile of these three "links", all patients may find themselves blamed for their own cancers.I know definitely, that a dear friend of mine who developed and died from ovarian cancer had never been overweight in her life, had never overindulged in alcohol and had never smoked. Likewise, other friends who have, have had or have died from breast cancer certainly never fell into the "bad lifestyle" category. And as for young people who develop breast cancer - or any other form of cancer - they have clearly not had time to make bad lifestyle choices. None of these are or were responsible for what happened to them. Yes, I am sure some people's lifestyle is partly - or wholly - to blame and I am sure that doctors see many such cases, but it does not apply to everyone.It is difficult enough coping with a cancer diagnosis and treatment, without feeling that the medical staff feel it is one's own fault. Cancer patients spend many hours blaming themselves - should I have avoided HRT? Should we have moved away from the agricultural chemicals? Should I have eaten a different diet? Added to the list are the new questions: Was I too many pounds overweight? How many was too many? How many of those glasses of wine or how many of the cigarettes I smoked took me over the top and qualified me to have caused my own disease?A second, unintended consequence of the high-profile citing of alcohol, smoking and obesity as links to many cancers, is that people who might be slightly overweight, smoke one cigarette a day or enjoy a few glasses of alcohol, could delay that all-important visit to the GP, with the resulting consequences of a late diagnosis. I wonder, is it a reluctance to have their lifestyles judged, one of the reasons that men - who are slower than women in seeking medical advice - are often diagnosed late?A report from Macmillan Cancer Support, published last month, revealed that "Thousands of cancer sufferers felt they were treated without compassion. One in five said they felt like they had been treated like a set of symptoms rather than as a person, while one in six said doctors behaved as though they were not even present". Were these doctors blaming their patients?I am not suggesting that being overweight, smoking or drinking alcohol have no bearing on the development of cancer. I am sure the research is accurate. The World Health Organisation predicts that the global number of new cases of cancer could rise to 25 million a year over the next 20 years and will be "fuelled" by bad lifestyle choices - but, I repeat, not all cases will be "fuelled" in this way.Are the headlines about the three "links" helping to prevent the early detection of cancer? Do you think they suggest that, in 2014, cancer is all too often self-inflicted? How do patients feel about being categorised in this way?