After a cancer diagnosis is made and the shock has partially been absorbed, the first hurdle is to tell the family - but how do you explain something which you barely understand yourself at that moment? How do you reassure when there is so much uncertainty? How do you find the right words? The stress begins.For breast cancer patients with children, help is at hand in the form of a wonderful book called Mummy's Lump. Published by Breast Cancer Care, the story follows two young children as they learn of their hother's diagnosis and experience what happens to her during her cancer treatment.However, in the family equation there may be elderly parents - who might be emotionally fragile, have physical problems or dementia. Very often the cancer patient is the middle of a sandwich of care - looking after both their children and their elderly parents. Whilst Mummy's Lump works brilliantly for children, how do you break the news to your parents? Are they strong enough to hear it and, if not, do you break it at all? How do you continue the parents' much-needed support, whilst offering as much of a normal life as possible for the children - and find time for yourself?The stress levels rise.Not making a fuss is part of the make-up of the mask worn by all cancer patients - and is why places like The Haven, for those with breast cancer, is a sanctuary in which that mask can be temporarily removed. However, for those who are the "filling" in the sandwich, there may be no time for visits to a sanctuary and even using the Haven At Home programme may be difficult.The fear that elderly parents will suffer while surgery and treatment is undertaken, is a huge psychological - not to mention financial - onus on the shoulders of a cancer patient. Will the necessary intervention of Social Services upset the older generation? Once in the "system" will they be retrievable once the patient feels better?Juggling the responsibilities for old and young is difficult enough at the best of times and stress levels are often high - but, with the implications of a cancer diagnosis, they rise higher.Whilst many clinicians in the UK reject the idea that high stress levels have any bearing on the development of cancer or the outcome of the disease, research last year at Ohio State University proved that stress does weaken the immune system - and, therefore, does have a detrimental effect. The resulting paper, by lead researcher Professor Barbara Anderson, noted: "Highly stressed women had lower levels of natural killer cells. These cells have an extremely important function with regard to cancer because they are capable of detecting and killing cancer cells."Professor Tsonwin Hai of the same university, who has studied a gene called ATF3, suggests that this gene "may be the crucial link between stress and cancer, including the major cause of cancer death - its spread and metastasis. ATF3 is activated in response to stressful conditions. Under typical circumstances, turning on ATF3 can cause normal and benign cells to commit suicide if cells decide that stressors (like irradiation and a lack of oxygen), have irrevocably damaged the cells. It appears that cancer cells coax immune-system cells, that have been recruited to the site of the tumour, to act erratically and give the cancer an escape route from the tumour to other areas of the body."Closer to home, David Foster from North Yorkshire, emailed me about the link between stress and cancer. He made some salient points. Very often lifestyle factors are blamed for the development of cancer, when the finger should really be pointed at the stress which caused the bad lifestyle choices. Even in animals there is a link. David tells the story of his dairy herd who, because of vandals disrupting the water supply, developed mastitis and lameness. "In scientific terms, mastitis and the supply of water are totally unrelated but the stress of not being able to drink for three hours", had its effect on the cows.I wonder - if a person experiences high stress levels during a certain period of life, will that come back to haunt them in later years? Certainly nobody asked me the question, but should that be part of the background to a cancer patient's diagnosis?In the light of the American research, should we not ensure that stress levels in patients are monitored during the cancer "journey"? Should there be more help available - particularly for those with elderly, dependent parents - while surgery and treatment is undertaken?Professor Hai said - referring to the old American comic strip character - "As Pogo said "We have met the enemy and he is us." Under stress, our own bodies turn against us.