I sometimes wonder just where we would all be without the determination of ordinary people - not politicians - who battle on behalf of those who are ill or vulnerable. It becomes a full-time job to fight to change a practice which is detrimental to those using it; to find the funding to introduce a new practice; or to strive to alter a practice which is clearly not working or benefiting those who need it.David Hickson from the Fair Telecoms Campaign has worked tirelessly to force the implementation of the Government's ruling that GPs' practices should not be allowed to use premium rate telephone lines. In 2010 the Department of Health gave GPs a year to phase out these lines and install ordinary telephone numbers. It is - as David says - "a disgrace" that not all GPs have adhered to the instruction.Until David contacted me in 2011, I had absolutely no idea that some GP practices in the UK were forcing their patients to ring on 0844 or 0845 numbers - which cost 40 pence per minute from a mobile and five pence per minute plus 13 pence connection charge from a landline. That is only the beginning of the cost involved because, once connected, should you have to hold on to speak to the receptionist, the price rises with every minute. Depending on the efficiency of the surgery's reception staff - a subject for a future blog post (so please let me have your experiences of GPs' receptionists) - you could be paying a massive bill. It is obvious that these surgeries benefit financially from the premium line calls, so how is it that the GPs claim not to be making a profit? GPs who use this system are funding themselves at the expense of patients. I understand, too, that when a GPs' practice has a pharmacy attached, the GPs share the profits. This may be perfectly legal - but is it morally right?Despite David's campaign, there are still 738 NHS GPs (with 938 surgeries) throughout the UK using 084 numbers. David said "These GPs are flouting the law and ripping off patients. We succeeded in our campaign for a ban and are furious it is not being implemented". There is a list of these GPs on the Fair Telecoms Campaign website and David is working to remove premium telephone lines from other organisations.Hope For Tomorrow - the charity which was founded by Christine Mills in 2003 - operates Mobile Chemotherapy Units. During the time that Christine's husband, David, was treated for cancer, one of the many stressful aspects the couple found was the round trip of 60 miles for David to receive chemotherapy from the nearest Oncology Centre. After David died, Christine wanted to found a charity which would focus on the practical issues attached to chemotherapy. On meeting Dr Sean Elyan (Consultant Oncologist and Medical Director of the Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust), she discovered that he had a similar vision about the need for Chemotherapy to come to the patient, rather than the other way round.She began fundraising and the world's first Mobile Chemotherapy Unit became a reality in 2007. Now celebrating its tenth anniversary, Hope For Tomorrow will have six mobile units by the end of the year. Currently they have units operating in Gloucestershire, Somerset, Wiltshire, Hampshire and into Dorset. Costing £260,000 to build and maintain for the first three years - paid for by the charity - the units are accompanied by five Nurses' Support Vehicles, also provided by Hope For Tomorrow. The NHS Trusts with which they are linked, operate the units on a daily basis and provide the specialist oncology staff, who can treat between 18-20 patients per day. The (very comfortable) units travel five days a week to five locations throughout their counties of operation.Unit number five will be going to East Kent in association with the East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust, and it looks like Christine's dream of being able to deliver chemotherapy treatments in every county in the UK is well on target. The work of the charity was appreciated recently when it was highly commended in their category of "Healthcare and Medical Research" at the Civil Society Charity Awards 2013.The Haven - or Havens - were founded by Sara Davenport in 1997. Her children's nanny developed breast cancer and Sara was appalled at the lack of information - not to mention emotional support and aftercare - on offer. She was determined to do what she could to change that scenario. She sold her art business and put all her energy and money into creating The (Breast Cancer) Haven.Currently there are three Havens - in London, Leeds and Hereford - with plans afoot for a fourth Haven in Wessex. All offer - free of charge - a wide range of support and therapies. Staffed by specialist breast cancer nurses, plus experts in nutrition, exercise, emotional support and complementary therapies, the buildings are - literally - "havens" from the mad rush of the outside world. They offer a peaceful chance to think about yourself and come to terms with the physical and emotional side effects of breast cancer and its treatment. They give you the chance to understand what has happened to you, to make sense of it all and to focus on life ahead. If you cannot travel to a Haven, there is telephone and online help available - plus a DVD and CD with input from the nurses and therapists.Thinking about these three people - who had no professional "duty of care" - I was struck by just how much is being achieved by those outside the political or medical arenas. It is a crying shame that some of those who work within these arenas do not show the same attitude towards the vulnerable and ill.If you would like more information about the Fair Telecoms Campaign, Hope for Tomorrow or The Haven, please log on to the appropriate website.