"It's a shocking statistic that one man dies every hour from prostate cancer in the UK."These words were spoken by the actor, John Simm, in support of the mini-film - screened by ITV4 on Sunday night and called Father's Day - in which he joins Ray Winstone, Charles Dance, Neil Stuke, Stuart Laing, Cyril Nri and Tamzin Outhwaite. The film, which is described as "dark; a heist movie - with a twist", has been made with one purpose and that is to raise awareness of the disease, particularly to the over 50s.All last week ITV - in conjunction with Prostate Cancer UK - has been promoting the charity's campaign Stand By Your Man, which culminated in the screening of Father's Day. Beautifully written by Martin Sadofski, the film is aimed at an audience that would not normally read or talk about prostate cancer.Using such high profile actors - who all support the charity and have a personal interest in or connection to the disease - will, undoubtedly, help to achieve the aim of Neil Stuke, whose idea it was and who co-produced the film. Neil was approached by Prostate Cancer UK after the character he plays in Silk was diagnosed with the disease. He was asked if could help the charity in any way - and Father's Day is the remarkable result.Prostate Cancer UK called this campaign Stand By Your Man to encourage women to persuade the men in their lives not to be afraid to have themselves checked. On the charity's website is a wealth of information about the disease and you can support the campaign by signing the Stand By Your Man pledge:There is little doubt that women are a hundred times better at understanding their bodies, noticing when something is amiss and consulting the doctor. Prostate cancer - or any form of cancer - tends not to be a subject of discussion among men; they do not remind each other that regular checks are necessary; and too few know what are the symptoms. Even if they do know, as Charles Dance said "A lot of men live with the symptoms and hope they're going to go away." I wonder, for instance, how many middle-aged men would welcome a "reminder" text to check their testicles in the same way that young men and women are signing up to Coppafeel's text service; even to the point of naming their breasts.Neil Stuke said "The message of the film is that men need to catch up with women in getting themselves regularly tested for cancer".It is shocking to realise that, by 2030, prostate cancer is predicted to become the most common cancer in the UK. Despite it being as big an issue for men as breast cancer is for women, prostate cancer receives just a fraction of the money for research. In 2010, £16 million was spent on prostate cancer research - while an astonishing £42 million went to breast cancer research. It is obvious why men are angry and consider prostate cancer to be the poor relation. If more money was given to prostate cancer research the disease would no longer be poorly understood, the tests would be good enough and the treatments might not have life-changing side effects.A recent study by The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and UCL concluded that too many NHS hospitals are using outdated and inaccurate techniques. The PSA test (the protein which indicates the presence of cancer) produces too many false positives and negatives. Standard biopsy procedures can miss the tumour, producing a false result. And, if a man is prepared to be checked, the knowledge of these inaccuracies must, surely, add to his reluctance to consult the doctor. The study also highlighted cases where patients faced surgery and radiotherapy for no good reason. It has been found that a biopsy result will be more accurate if an MRI scan is taken first, so that the needle can be guided into the suspected tumour and a sample taken - but an MRI scan is a very expensive diagnostic tool.This is an appalling state of affairs. Would it not be better - and a whole heap cheaper - to use the Medical Detection Dogs, who can detect accurately prostate cancer from the smallest amount of urine on a pad? As yet the dogs cannot differentiate between a prostate cancer which will remain in an unaltered state and cause the patient no problem at all and one which will develop and spread - but neither can current laboratory tests. Using the Dogs to do the initial test would save needless MRI scans and reserve the money for those people who actually do have the disease.The prostate is the size of a walnut but, as Prostate Cancer UK's other campaign Sledgehammer says, "It is a hard nut to crack and will take a Sledgehammer to do so". The series of advertisements and television commercials - fronted by Bill Bailey - which ran earlier this year made a perfect forerunner to Stand By Your Man. It was hard to avoid the powerful message.Owen Sharp - CEO of Prostate Cancer UK - said "Everyone with a father, husband, partner, brother, son or best mate has a vested interest in this cause. The breast cancer movement is an inspiration to us. We need the same sense of momentum, inspiration and galvanising spirit to fight prostate cancer and help more men to survive the disease and enjoy a higher quality of life. ITV's huge nationwide influence means the 'Stand By Your Man' campaign is a fantastic opportunity to reach thousands of men and could save many lives because prostate cancer can often be successfully treated if detected early enough."If you missed the screening of Father's Day, log on to Prostate Cancer Uk's website now and watch it - or, if you are concerned about symptoms please call one of the team of specialist nurses on 0800 074 8383."One gang, one plan, one big problem. A man dies every hour and they all have to face up to it."