One day in 2007 my late mother - then a sprightly 93 year old - said to me "I do wish these people would get off my sofa. They sit there all day and only go if I tap them on their heads or shoulders." She and I were the only people in the room.I was extremely alarmed when she described her "visions". Not only were there the faceless people on her sofa but other apparitions which peppered her daily life and had been doing so for about 18 months. I suspect she decided to confide in me at that point because some of the "visions" were becoming difficult to tolerate. Up to that moment, she was terrified - not of the visions, but of losing her sanity.Listening to her descriptions of gargoyle-like creatures evading capture, an Edwardian funeral procession - complete with plumed horses, carriages and clergy in red cassocks - and an urchin hopping from room to room, I was perplexed. I drove home pondering how to help, picking up a newspaper on the way. To my enormous surprise, the paper carried an article about exactly my mother's experience and I learned that the condition had a name - Charles Bonnet Syndrome.With this lucky discovery, I began to do some research and was able to reassure my mother that she was not alone - in fact it is reckoned that there might be two million people in the UK suffering from this condition. Her ophthalmologist had neglected to mention the possibility of CBS and, when challenged about his lack of duty of care, he was adamant that his patients did not need to be warned. The arrogance of the man was beyond belief.Since writing about my mother's experience of CBS, very little seems to have changed in the medical profession's knowledge of the condition or attitude to patients who have developed it.Over the past year a very close elderly friend who has been registered blind for five years has developed CBS, as has the Father of a friend, whose sight has become impaired through macular degeneration. Neither were warned of the possibility of developing the condition. Luckily, both friends remembered my mother's experience and when their visions became bad they spoke to their GPs. One GP had never heard of the condition but was persuaded to do some research. The second recognised immediately the symptoms because his father had experienced the condition.I am staggered at how many members of the Royal College of Opthalmology are defying their college's recommendation that "health professionals must warn patients about the risk of CBS at, or soon after, diagnosis".In August of 2009, The Mature Times published an article reinforcing The Macular Society's plea for eye doctors to warn patients with macular degeneration that they have at least a 20 per cent chance of developing CBS.I am also amazed that too many opticians are unaware of CBS. I expected to have to explain the condition to mum's nurses and carers, but not her optician. How is it that CBS is such a closely guarded secret? Once I had explained - backed up with the scientific research I had found - the optician was keen to learn more and apologetic for not being au fait with the diagnosis. The latter was purely my own because I could never persuade the ophthalmologist to see my mother in order to give a professional diagnosis. Clearly, he thought it did not matter to someone of 93.The medical term for mum's "visions" is Visual Hallucinations and they occur when there is partial or total loss of vision, caused by macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy or cataracts. The brain, which controls sight through the eye, fills in the blank spots with stored images. These can be from real life, from film or television, from books or radio. While these visual hallucinations tend to happen to people as they age, anyone who experiences loss of vision can be affected, even children.There are antipsychotic drugs which can be prescribed to some patients, but it is essential to remember that this condition has nothing whatsoever to do with dementia. Dr Dominic Ffytche is the leading authority on the condition in the UK and has been awarded a grant by The Macular Society to research non-drug treatments for CBS.Blinking five or six times or looking from left to right several times have been suggested by Dr Ffytche as ways to dissipate some types of Visual Hallucinations - like grids, checkerboards, lattices and colours. These eye movements activate visual parts of the brain in people with macular disease. For the larger and more complex Visual Hallucinations, drumming your fingers on the table or jumping up and moving round the room can sometimes help. This kicks the brain into another gear.If you have a family member or friend who is experiencing visual disturbances, please print off the leaflet about The Charles Bonnet Syndrome from The Macular Society's website and - as the charity suggests - give it to them to take to the GP. You cannot guarantee that he or she will have heard of the condition.Charles Bonnet - the 18th century Swiss scientist and philosopher - who discovered the syndrome in his grandfather, would be horrified that there are still eye specialists who are reluctant to take seriously this debilitating and frightening condition.For more information please look on The Macular Society's website - which offers a telephone number if you would like to speak to a Buddy who is also experiencing CBS, which is 0300 3030111 or email help@macularsociety.org. Oliver Sacks - the neurologist and author - speaks about the condition on the TED website. TED stands for Technology, Entertainment and Design and is a non-profit organisation devoted to "Ideas Worth Spreading".Knowledge of the Charles Bonnet Syndrome is definitely worth spreading.Did your ophthalmologist warn you? If so, how did he or she explain the condition to you and what coping mechanisms were suggested?Please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk with your experiences of CBS.