Follow @SharonFGrigsby
Lots of great work by the DMN newsroom in the weekend newspapers. So much so that I don't know if we'll be able to write an editorial for every article that deserves our attention. One that I want to make sure isn't overlooked was this Saturday page one piece by Kevin Krause about the death of a homeless alcoholic in the county jail back in 2009.Here's the deal: It's a death that might have been prevented and one that highlights a problem that continues to plague inmates at the county jail. The county and Sheriff Lupe Valdez have made the decision not to train jailers to recognize medical problems.In this case, Craig Morris was checked out four times by the infirmary, but the jailers in the Tank 1 (infirmary) pod apparently didn't share much of what they were seeing when he was "released" from the nurse's station. The fact that jailers are all but prohibited from passing along observations — because supposedly they aren't trained to do the task exactly right — seems shortsighted at best and deadly at worst. You'll note in Krause's story that Tarrant and Austin County jails have a more effective process in place.Even if it's possible for the jailers to get an ill person to medical staff expediently, the lack of an evaluation of what they've seen in the pod would put infirmary staff at a disadvantage. Here, according to the Krause story, is how Craig Morris' life ended:As Morris' condition deteriorated at the jail, inmate Peter Iagmin said he tried to summon officers several times. Court records detail Morris' final hours:Iagmin said Morris had diarrhea and was vomiting. At one point, Morris soiled himself and crawled into the shower.Iagmin said he called the guard station but no one came. He later recalled pleading with them into the intercom: "You have to come get him. He's lost it and needs a nurse."Two jailers finally arrived. One found Morris to be "incoherent and unresponsive." The other noticed he was shaking and unable to walk. That officer said Morris seemed "really out of it" and wondered why he wasn't at Parkland.The officers put Morris on his bunk and called a nurse. Morris was taken to the nurse station in a wheelchair. His vitals were checked and deemed to be stable. A nurse gave Morris a sedative. Two nurses said they didn't notice anything seriously wrong with Morris, and he was returned to the cell.But Morris ended up on the cell floor again. For 20 minutes, Iagmin and another inmate tried unsuccessfully to get an officer to respond.Iagmin said he figured they were "done" dealing with Morris. He covered Morris with a blanket and got into his bunk as the sound of Morris' breathing grew fainter.I know anyone can allege anything in a lawsuit. What makes this one worth spotlighting is that a  federal judge has said it has the merits to move forward. If inmates have to "go through the jailers" to get medical care, it seems those jailers need some training. 