Sydney's western suburbs have emerged as the powerhouse areas of the harbour city for increases in property values over the last year. Data from Australian Property Monitors reveals that in the 12 months to the end of May, the top five increases in housing values occurred in the more affordable parts of the NSW capital.Sydney has a median price of $643,713, according to APM, a Fairfax Media-owned company.The hot spots for growth in the value of apartments were also, mostly, in the west. While top spot was won by suburbs in the Botany Bay council area in the inner south, which potentially benefited from being just down the road from Green Square, one of the largest urban renewal projects in Australia, the remaining four leading areas for price growth were west and south west of the city (although Marrickville is considered the "inner west" these days).It is worth noting that, despite the price rises, auction clearance rates have taken a battering. This could point to slowing prices in the west of Sydney when we see updated figures from Australian Property Monitors in the next fortnight. Looking at houses, clearance rates have fallen by as much as 25 per cent in some areas.And the same for units...Nevertheless, in what has been a very flat market across the board for the last 12 months, many parts of western Sydney have survived very well.So what's driving the growth?In Auburn, where Sydney's fastest growth in house prices was seen in the 12 months to the end of May, agent Aaron Ng from Australian Real Estate Auburn says many of his buyers are newly arrived Australians, hailing from a wide variety of countries.  They like Auburn for its cheaper prices and central location, and often stay for three to five years before selling and moving elsewhere.Ng says Auburn is about half an hours' drive from the east, north or south of the city, and just 10 minutes from Parramatta - helpful for people trying to establish themselves in a small business or a commute to a job."It's very central," he says.In the Blacktown council area, where house prices grew 3.9 per cent in the year to the end of May to reach a median of $400,000, agent Daniel Formosa, principal of Starr Partners Blacktown, says he is seeing solid buyer activity."There's a lot more properties on the market now than there was this time last year but there is still the same amount of buyers out there, if not a little bit more," Formosa says.Most home hunters are from the local area - or within 5 kilometres. Among them are a smattering of first home buyers.There's been plenty of talk about investor activity in western Sydney but Formosa isn't seeing it. "There are ... not as many as we'd like to see," he says. "There are quite a few investors putting their houses on the market, actually."At Liverpool, agent Joe Musico, principal of Homeland Real Estate, says the luxury market -  ranging from $600,000 - $900,000 - is slow, but below that there are buyers for "quality homes".Quality doesn't mean expensive though - there is a hunt on for value. "Anything under the median is selling very well," Musico says. "But if there's things that need to be fixed up with the house, they're reluctant. If the pricing is not right on the property, they're reluctant."It's perhaps not surprising that some of the more affordable areas of the nation's most expensive city are thriving. "Sydney is ridiculously unaffordable on most measures, compared to the rest of Australia," says Andrew Wilson, senior economist with Australian Property Monitors.There might be another trend emerging, too. Squeezed by high prices and congestion, it is possible that some Sydneysiders are  redefining their definition of "inner city", finally making the concept of satellite CBDs a reality.Take this comment from agent Daniel Formosa about Blacktown, 39 kilometres from heart of Sydney but just 13 kilometres from Parramatta: "Your CBD is not too far away, Parramatta, Penrith, we're right in the middle of everything". 