A powerful headline sits atop tomorrow's editorial page in regard to the latest IT manager mess: "The stench at Dallas City Hall." (Here's the online version.)A colleague and I — both of us former DMN city editors who directed a lot of City Hall coverage back in the day — got to talking about the long list of "It's a mess at City Hall" headlines from the past year.  And we had a difficult time recalling when the bad news came quite this fast and furious.Here's an informal tally from the last year based on about five minutes of brainstorming between the two of us:September 2012, Dallas' lousy landfill collections on the heels of sanitation director Mary Nix's flow control mess.December 2012 into spring 2013: Gas drilling on park land and the city manager's "back room deal." We wrote multiple editorials; here's one that sums up much of the mess. (There's that word again, "mess.")April 2013: How can city say system worked in bogus resume case? Do you remember Antoine Flowers, the top information technology manager hired with an extraordinary — and totally made up— resume? And then there was Suanne Durham, indicted for using an ex-offender program to help her niece. Her boss, city housing director Jerry Killingsworth, resigned soon after.June 2013: The Trinity bike trails fiasco. That one still hasn't been completely sorted out.July 2013: The city's online billing system woes don't seem to be getting any better.City leaders have lavished high praise on recently departed (but still working on special projects) City Manager Mary Suhm as a model of success.Are all the things that have gone wrong at City Hall this last year or so just seen as unconnected to Suhm? Or are these headlines part of what happens when you have the same administration in place for so long and, perhaps, everyone grows a bit complacent?I'll step out with a personal story here: I stayed in at least one newspaper leadership job too long and began to develop the very habits the experts warn about — not wanting to hear bad news and becoming overprotective of "my people." And I didn't see any of it. Because I was too close to it. Just as long-tenured top folks at City Hall may be too close to it.I respect Mary Suhm; the editorial we wrote when she announced her resignation is generally where I stand — although I'm beginning to wonder how many more old "messes" are yet to roll out. But thinking about  the past year's string of bad headlines reminds me how difficult it is to create a new culture if you are part of the old culture. I hope the City Council and other stakeholders give this careful thought in deciding what kind of leader should replace Suhm.