According to Cancer Research UK's website, over 331,000 people were diagnosed with cancer in 2011 - that is around 910 per day. Research by the National Cancer Intelligence Network tells us that 1 in 4 patients is diagnosed with cancer as a consequence of an emergency visit to Accident and Emergency - not by the GP. Over the age of 70, the number rises to 1 in 3.Would one of the reasons for this be because it is often extremely difficult to book an appointment with the GP? Appointments are slotted into ten minute intervals, during which time the patient and the doctor have to be able to communicate in a fast and comprehensible fashion. Any longer with a patient means that the GP's day is put out of kilter - and the waiting room is full of frustrated patients.Whilst I understand completely that our GPs have a heavy, daily workload - followed, like teachers, by endless form-filling, which is the theme of modern governments - I find it slightly hard to believe Dr Fiona Cornish, President of the Medical Women's Society, when she says that GPs see or speak to 60 patients a day. Is that number even possible? She says that GPs 'cannot cope with a five-day week and are burning out'. Dr Cornish believes that 'we have a toxic trio - an ageing population, shrinking resources and patients becoming more demanding.' Aha - could Dr Cornish have hit a particular nail on the head? Do some GPs not like it when their patients ask intelligent, informed questions?I digress. Why are cancers being missed in the GP's surgery? Is it because doctors are burnt out and unable to focus; is it because patients do not always consult the GP (even if they could find a free appointment slot), preferring to hope that 'it will go away'; or is it because some (undemanding types, no doubt) whose symptoms remain, but who - having been to the surgery once - are reluctant to 'bother' the GP again? Or is it that the cancer falls into the group called 'difficult-to-diagnose' and goes unrecognised - or unbelieved - by the GP? Breast cancer in young women is a classic example of the latter.However, this is not entirely the fault of the GP. Despite the high figure of cancer cases diagnosed annually, a GP might only see 8 or 9 cases a year and, with rarer cancers, might never see an example in a whole career. Cancers such as ovarian, penile and pancreatic cancer are commonly misdiagnosed. Cancer charities are very aware of this and, to help GPs, are beginning to develop diagnostic tools and e-learning courses for them.Knowing that it can be as long as six months before a woman is properly diagnosed with ovarian cancer, the charity Target Ovarian Cancer produced an on-line learning tool with free accreditation. Now, two years later, Annwen Jones, CEO of Target, said: 'we know from our own research that no GP wants to miss a diagnosis of ovarian cancer. The evidence-base for diagnosis had shifted and we knew that GPs' knowledge did not reflect the latest studies. The record number of completions (of the course) shows how positive the GPs' appetite is for updating their knowledge of this challenging disease'. That is very reassuring.Macmillan Doctors - all practicing GPs and advisers to Macmillan - joined Target to develop Ten Top Tips, which is a resource to support patients and GPs to communicate effectively with each other about the symptoms of ovarian cancer. Given the time limit on consultations, this can only be a very positive step forward. Along with the NHS campaign 'Be Clear on Cancer', pens - flagging the symptoms and diagnostic processes of ovarian cancer - are also available to GPs.Macmillan's own 'Cancer Decision Support Tool' can be embedded into the GP's computer and will help in diagnosing lung, ovarian, colorectal, pancreatic and oesophago-gastric cancers - all very difficult to identify.Orchid - the charity dedicated to the research and treatment of male cancers - is in the throes of producing an E-learning tool for GPs to alert them to the symptoms of penile cancer. As with breast cancer in men, there are 500 cases diagnosed each year - but misdiagnosis is all too easy. In June, Orchid is launching a Penile Health Z-Card to join the current prostate and testicular cards.Early diagnosis is the key and the work of these charities brings to the GP's surgery vital, updated diagnostic and treatment information - not available from the NHS. Medical conditions are rarely simple but, with these tools - and many more to come - perhaps the number of mis- and late diagnoses might fall?Misdiagnosis occurs elsewhere too. The Charles Bonnet Syndrome is often diagnosed as dementia - with horrific results. I am beginning a campaign - with huge help from the The Ostrich Group - to raise awareness amongst the medical profession and the general public of this distressing condition.
All information would be very gratefully received. Please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.More by Judith Potts
  Confusion over self-examinations and screening for breast cancer. Who can a woman trust for advice?
  Art therapy for cancer patients helps the management of emotionsFollow @TelegraphBlogs