Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy is recommended by NICE as a treatment for recurring depression. The use of this and other forms of Mindfulness is on the increase, with courses being run all over the UK. Based on Buddhist meditation, it is described as a technique to "tune out the distractions", to live "in the moment" and to "connect to ourselves".None of these is easy to achieve after a diagnosis of cancer. The word itself is a constant distraction; the 'journey' throws up worries about the future; and many people feel disconnected from themselves - not to mention from family and friends. Depression - along with stress, anxiety, panic attacks and pain - can be a side effect. Coping is not easy.Help may be available, in the form of medication from the GP, (but not everyone wants to go down that route); or from support centres, in the form of discussions, singing with a choir or joining a walking team - but this sort of group therapy does not suit everyone. Yet the loneliness that goes with a cancer diagnosis can eat away at confidence, sending imagination into overdrive and allowing the dark thoughts to multiply - without any method of giving vent to feelings, relaxing or taking control of emotions.The phrase "living in the moment" was used to me, just recently, by Sarah Kelly, the Education Manager at The Westport Arts Centre, in Connecticut. The gallery was showing an exhibition of paintings created by cancer patients, their families or carers from the Smilow Cancer Centre at Yale-New Haven Hospital. Called "Abstract Notes", the pieces were the result of on-going workshops given by local artist, Nell Bernegger, helped by the Education Team from The Arts Centre. The participants were encouraged to paint "in that particular moment".Under each painting were a few words of explanation, written by the artist. Some had never painted before but found, through this medium, the ability to express their anger, their worries or their determination. One lady wrote "This painting expresses an inner me that wants to be vibrant and bold and full of energy"; another "This painting expresses the importance of being supported"; and a daughter, of her mother's cancer "I was confused by my Mother's cancer diagnoses. I felt trapped. Now I feel more capable of understanding what is happening."In the UK, the Making Art Personal Foundation has furthered the use of art as a therapy, basing its website on the work of the artist, Michele Angelo Petrone. Born in the UK of Italian parents, Michele was diagnosed with Hodgkin's Disease in 1993, when he was 30. Every cancer patient will empathise instantly with his words that nothing had prepared him for the pain, difficulty and fear. He found himself in hospital isolation and, during that time, began to use his artistic talent to express his feelings. A myriad of paintings emerged and, subsequently, were exhibited at the Wigmore Hall in London, under the title "Between Night and Day".Later he became Artist in Residence at St. Peter and St. James' Hospice in East Sussex. Here he worked with patients and carers, describing the therapy as a way to "colour their feelings". The resulting exhibition was called "Touching the Rainbow" - after which he extended his work to health professionals, giving them the chance to illustrate their side of the cancer story.Michele died in 2007 but, by that time, he had set up the Foundation. His aim was to "promote expression, communication and understanding of the complex issues of serious illness and dying". His work can be seen on the Foundation's website - and so can the work of cancer patients, to whom MAP reaches out and encourages them to express and describe their "cancer journeys" - with or without giving their identity. Pictures (painting or drawing), photographs, stories and poems are welcomed - "for every step of your cancer journey". This on-line community is using the arts as a "bridge between medical treatment and the human experience of cancer." "Starting with Art - using creative ways to support your cancer journey" is to be launched as a downloadable document, which will enable people to "use different routes to find your own creative space".MAP now wants other artists - from the world of film, dance, writing or theatre (Michele started his career working in stage design) - to begin similar work in this field, helping people use their creativity as therapy.Whether it is by participating in group therapy, or by using the personal channel of art or Mindfulness, the complex and myriad emotions at play with cancer can be managed or used in a positive way.One of the artists whose work was exhibited in Westport quoted Thomas Merton - the American writer and mystic - who said "Art enables us to find ourselves and lose ourselves at the same time."To donate to WAC or MAP please log onto their websites.Follow @TelegraphBlogs