As I sat in Committee Room No. 8 at The House of Commons last Tuesday, listening to Anna Soubrey (Under Secretary of State for Public Health) answering questions put to her by Baroness Delyth Morgan (CEO of Breast Cancer Campaign) and Nick de Bois MP (Chair of the Primary Care and Public Health Parliamentary Group), I could not help reflecting on the frustration of not being allowed to leap up and ask Ms Soubrey all sorts of questions myself! However, as Steven Brine, the Co-Chair of The All Party Parliamentary Group on Breast Cancer tells me, the inquiry is "held in public but is not a public meeting". So there we are.The inquiry is covering an extremely important issue. It appears that older people are not receiving the same level of treatment and support when breast cancer is diagnosed as those in younger age brackets. One third of women diagnosed with breast cancer in the UK is over 70 years of age. Late presentation is an important element, as is a low rate of self-referral for breast screening - NHS-offered screening ceases when a woman is 70 and is not there at all for men.The first session focused on risk, awareness and early detection. There will be two more sessions of the inquiry - on 16th and 23rd April - which will cover access to gold standard treatments, information and support. The report with recommendations will be published in July and I will cover the inquiry results in a fuller blog post at that time.The Prime Minister has already given his support to the inquiry, saying: "I am really pleased the all-party group are conducting this inquiry into older people with breast cancer. We have made solid progress in fighting breast cancer in recent years but there is so much more to do". Indeed there is.Providing Secretariat support to the APPG is Breakthrough Breast Cancer - the charity which researches and campaigns for those with the disease. With research centres in London, Manchester, Oxford and Edinburgh, Breakthrough's 270 scientists are engaged in 25 per cent of all the breast cancer research work in the UK. Finding new treatments for breast cancer - "fine-tuned to a patient's needs" - which will specifically target the cancer's weakness, be more effective and have fewer side effects; investigating how adolescent breasts grow and what, then, goes wrong in the adult breast to cause cancer; working to predict the patient's response to treatment - why do patients respond differently to drugs like tamoxifen and Herceptin; these are just a few examples but the charity's website carries full descriptions of all its research and campaign work.As with most other breast cancer charities, Breakthrough relies on donations from the public to fund its work. There are all sorts of ways in which money can be raised but two young people are in the middle of a huge undertaking - cycling from Cairo to Cape Town. The money raised by Alastair Insall and Lizzie Brown will be divided between Breakthrough Breast Cancer (because Alastair's Mum has had the disease twice), The Chilterns MS Centre (because Lizzie's Mum developed Multiple Sclerosis 15 years ago) and Colalife (the charity which uses Coca Cola's distribution channels to carry rehydration salts and zinc supplements to save children's lives). Looking on their "Blazing Saddles 2013" website, I see that - so far - the amount raised is nearly £6,500. They are writing a blog and shooting video as they go - and I hope there will be a book at the end of the marathon journey, which would enable even more money to be raised. Tour d'Afrique is 7,500 miles with 96 days of cycling and 25 rest days. The journey, which began in January, takes Ali and Lizzie through 10 countries on roads which are variable in quality - to say the least.Having met at University some nine years ago, Ali and Lizzie cemented their relationship by becoming engaged en route, on the rim of the Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania! How - I wondered - had they managed to take five months out of their careers for this wonderful (but crazy?!) expedition? The answer is that Alastair, who is a financial analyst for a construction financing team, has taken a sabbatical and Lizzie, who is the Private Secretary for the Minister of Employment at the DWP, used her persuasive powers to such good effect that "no" was not an option!The Committee Room at The Commons seemed claustrophobic as my thoughts turned to the wide open spaces of Africa and these two young people - who are, I hope, not too saddle-sore. I felt weary just thinking of all that pedalling.If you would like to attend the next two meetings of the APPGBC please log on to The Breakthrough Breast Cancer website for contact details. You can follow the progress of the Inquiry on Twitter using the twitter handle @appgbc and the hashtags #breastcancer and #inquiry2013.If you would like to read Ali and Lizzie's blog or donate to their chosen charities, please log on to Blazing Saddles 2013.
www.breakthrough.org.uk