Lent is almost at an end and this means - for me - that I can put chocolate back into my diet - although with a determination to be somewhat more disciplined about how much I eat! There is no doubt that "we are what we eat" and, to this end, Bowel Cancer UK has teamed up with Sharpham Park and launched The Great British Spelt Recipes campaign.April is Bowel Cancer Awareness Month and the latest figures from Cancer Research UK show that the number of cases of bowel cancer have risen considerably. In the 1970s, the figure for men diagnosed with bowel cancer was 45 in every 100,000 - now it is 58. For women the figure has risen from 35 to 37. The diet of processed and refined food, so much enjoyed by many people in the UK, has to be one of the causes of the rise in these numbers. Roughage is an essential part of a healthy diet and eating spelt - which the Romans called their "Marching Grain" - as a substitute for wheat, not only reduces the symptoms suffered by those with a wheat intolerance, but also provides B vitamins, iron, zinc, niacin (for lowering cholesterol and lipoprotein levels), riboflavin and has a low Glycaemic Index. The natural fibre in this whole-grain is a hugely important component of a bowel healthy diet.Food writers, critics and chefs have donated their recipes, which can be made with Sharpham Park organic products - all of which have Bowel Cancer UK's logo on the side - including a variety of spelt flours, porridge, muesli and pearled spelt. Dishes such as The Fabulous Baker Brothers' soda bread, Sally Clark's oven dried tomato and basil pizza and Trine Hahnemann's cod and pearled spelt with sprouts are but a few examples. There are others from the likes of Sophie Dahl, The Hairy Bikers, Heston Blumenthal and Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall.Running alongside, is Bowel Cancer UK's "Great Start Breakfasts" - supported by Ainsley Harriott. The charity asks you to "get your morning off to a good start". Set a date, pick a menu (a healthy one, I hope!), invite your guests and raise funds for Bowel Cancer UK's campaigning and support work. Look on the charity's website and find posters, recipes and invitations in a pack which can be ordered or call Jess on 0207 386 4006. Your breakfast could be a picnic, round the kitchen table or in a formal dining room.Bowel Cancer describes colon, rectum and small bowel cancers - the first two are sometimes called colorectal cancer and are the most common form of this disease. Cancer of the small bowel is rare - with just over 700 people diagnosed in the UK each year.Bowel cancer can be difficult to diagnose and symptoms might include dark or black stools (caused by bleeding), an unexplained change in bowel habits, abdominal pain, anaemia, weight loss, bloating or vomiting. As with other cancers, too many people are unaware of the symptoms, too many GPs do not recognise the symptoms (partly because they could point to other conditions) and patients return again and again before a referral is made; too many younger patients (under the age of 50) find themselves faced with delays in diagnosis and a lack of support. The numbers of younger people developing the disease - as in other cancers - is rising and Bowel Cancer UK commissioned and has published a report called "Never Too Young", in which they make 5 key recommendations, from the suggested development of a "bowel disease decision aid tool" to adequate screening and psychological and physical support for everyone.Risk factors include age (over 72 per cent of cases are diagnosed in people over the age of 65 - but as we have seen, the disease is appearing in younger patients); diet (high in red or processed meats and saturated fats, added to low fibre); being overweight; a high intake of alcohol or cigarettes; genetic conditions - ie a close relative with the disease; or a related condition, like Crohn's Disease.Currently, the NHS is offering screening for those over the age of 60 and soon to be extended to those aged 70-75. You may have received a screening pack in the post - if so, please don't ignore it. It may be fiddly to carry out but it just might alert the screening centre to a problem. The result is returned to you very quickly. I wonder, should we not also be considering a colonoscopy for everyone over the age of 40 - as is the case in the USA?It is hard to believe that it is 20 years since the great footballer, Bobby Moore, died from bowel cancer - aged only 51. In 1993 Bobby's wife Stephanie, set up the Bobby Moore Fund, to raise money for research into bowel cancer and to increase public awareness of the disease. So far, the charity has raised £18.8 million, which has funded a series of Bobby Moore Research Fellowships, studies into the genetics of bowel cancer, new surgical techniques, new treatments and ways to prevent and reduce the risk of developing the disease.To mark the 20th anniversary of the Fund and Bobby's birthday on Friday 12th April, the "Make Bobby Proud" appeal has been launched and you are invited to join in with Football Shirt Friday. Download the posters, upload photos of you wearing your football shirts to the Fund's Facebook page or tweet the pictures using hash tag #MakeBobbyProud.To find the online Great British Spelt Recipes from Sharpham Park and Bowel Cancer UK click here.For Football Shirt Friday and #MakeBobbyProud click here. Other bowel cancer charities include Beating Bowel Cancer, Bowel Cancer Research and the aptly named GUTS.Early diagnosis is the key to a good outcome. If you are concerned about any of the symptoms listed above, please do not be embarrassed - your GP has heard it all before - and make that important appointment. As the television commercial says, it does not matter which words you use - just use them.