The Charity Wellbeing of Women - which covers all aspects of women's health - recently hosted an evening of discussion with four ovarian cancer experts.They were - in no particular order - Professor Sean Kehoe, who is President of the British Gynaecological Society and Chief Investigator for the CHORUS MRC/RCOG trial; Mr. Alan Farthing, a consultant gynaecological surgeon and oncologist; Dr. Sarah Martin, who won the MRC New Investigator award in 2012 to fund her research aimed at identifying new ways of treating cancer by targeting defects in DNA repair; and Dr. Michelle Lockley, the medical lead for ovary cancer at Barts Health NHS Trust. The four were joined by Dominic Nutt, who is Director of Communications for The Saatchi Cancer Initiative.Questioned by Eve Pollard, the doctors - and Dominic - answered all manner of questions about the disease, its treatment and its diagnosis.The main points seemed to be:1. At present, 6,700 women die every year in the UK from ovarian cancer - that is one woman ever two hours.2. Ovarian cancer is considered the poor relation in the cancer-giving world, with only 5 per cent of all donations finding its way to research.3. GPs fail to refer a woman who presents with "general" symptoms, which could be IBS or something similar, because they might only see one woman with ovarian cancer every five years.There is no pre-cancerous state to the disease, so early detection is extremely difficult and sometimes, as Mr. Farthing said: "There can be a sizeable ovarian lump without it causing any symptoms and the woman noticing there is anything wrong."The CA125 test is notoriously unreliable in post-menopausal women.4. As the cancer appears in 1 in 2000 women, screening by way of a scan is not only too expensive but it seems that it would show up too many abnormalities that are not cancer. Screening by biomarkers did not work.5. On the positive side, Mr. Farthing said that "We have got better at keeping people alive with fewer symptoms. The chances of survival for five years has moved from 20 per cent to 40 per cent.6. There are more genetic types than the mutant BRAC1 and 2 genes but, at present, this is the only one named.7. Dr. Kehoe explained that ovarian cancer is a mix of diseases - with subtypes. As in breast cancer, ovarian can "flip" during treatment and should then be treated differently from each moment of change.Should we even call it "ovarian"? We do, perhaps because that is easier but, with personalised medicine on the increase, it might be that - in the future - there will be no types. All will be called simply "cancer".8. Inspirational thoughts and inspirational science is needed to beat the disease.9. Dominic Nutt insisted that "patients should demand innovation - like the HIV patients did in the 1980s". Someone has to think "outside the box" and "against prevailing winds".He said that the problem lies with "the GMC, who holds the biggest barrier to using new procedures - the NHS has medical negligence cases against it to the tune of £24 billion". I think I can see why the barrier to the Saachi Cancer Initiative has been erected!10. As with breast cancer, the figures for those developing ovarian cancer drops in the Mediterranean region and in the East. However, should a Japanese or Chinese woman move to the USA, her chances of developing breast or ovarian cancer fall into place with the local people.There has to be a link between these cancers and diet - at the very least.Mr. Farthing commented that "We have to invent our way out of this" - and there are a number of people doing just that.The Australian company, PrimaBiomed, is working on an immunotherapy which uses the patients own T-cells (which have been washed with a modified Mucin 1 and injected back into the body) to target a protein only existing on tumour cells, leaving healthy tissue intact and giving a sideeffect free treatment.At the Royal Marsden Hospital, Dr. Alexandra Taylor, is testing the "Cyberknife" - a cutting-edge radiotherapy technique - which allows beams to be shaped to precisely fit each tumour and not, as conventional radiotherapy does, harm the surrounding healthy tissue.Professor Sean Kehoe's CHORUS is a randomised trial to determine the impact of timing of surgery and chemotherapy in newly diagnosed patients with advanced epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal or Fallopian tube carcinoma.In the UK too, the research study UKCTOCs - which used 50,000 post menopausal women - will be reporting in 2015. In this trial, 2 screening tests - the CA125 blood test or a transvaginal ultrasound scan, are being compared with having no test at all.Professor Kehoe's positive message was "We should ask the question: Why are people living longer with Stage 4 ovarian cancer and not why do they die?"I learned a good deal that evening - from facts and figures to hope for the future.