Ellie Jeffery, the ITN and Sky TV Reporter, died from breast cancer 18 months ago - just a few weeks before she and her fiancé, TV producer, Tom Thostrup, were to be married.During her illness, Ellie wrote a blog, detailing her experiences of living with secondary breast cancer. It was called Written Off and it was Ellie's intention that, by writing the blog, she would be helping to "make the big 'c' smaller".Following her death, Tom has launched The Eleanor Rose Foundation in her memory. He says that "Ellie had this great legacy with the blog and I wanted to build on that." The intention of the foundation is to build a network of people and organisations in the UK, who are prepared to offer to those suffering from any form of cancer, respite - in the form of complementary therapies, entertainment tickets, day or weekend breaks - in fact, anything which might ease the difficulty of living with the disease; if only for an hour. Some offers will be free and some will have a price reduction.The network is called Ellie's Friends and, just recently, the first in what - surely - will be a growing line of "friends" opened its doors. The Natural Health Service in Swansea has dedicated each Friday as "Ellie's Friends' Fridays", when the clinic will offer massage, hypnotherapy for pain management, meditation, yoga and counselling free to those living with cancer.Rhian Davies Powell who runs The Natural Health Service said:Coping with cancer is a huge physical and mental challenge. All too often, a diagnosis of cancer brings with it financial difficulties to add to fatigue of body and spirit, which means that it is virtually impossible to take part in - or pay to travel to - any form of respite.When Tom cut the ribbon in Swansea he said:One such service is Sail4Cancer and, at this moment, one of its founders, Richard Mayon-White is sailing his yacht, Haskapa, along the latitude of the Tropic 4 Cancer across the Atlantic to Antigua, in order to raise funds for his charity and The Sobell House Hospice in Oxford. Sail4Cancer was set up in 2001 by a group of keen sailors who had all lost a close friend or relative to cancer. The charity will use its share of the funds raised by Richard's trip to provide water-based respite breaks for families affected by cancer, to provide sailing weekends for teenagers with cancer and provide breaks for young carers.The charity also makes grants to cancer care centres and funds research into the positive effects of exercise like sailing and how it can help prevent cancer and aid recovery post-diagnosis. Visit www.sail4cancer.org.If you are in the position to be able to help The Eleanor Rose Foundation please contact the charity and become an Ellie's Friend.