October draws to an end, leaving in its wake much of the pink residue of Breast Cancer Awareness Month - but not all. Research goes on - and amazing people continue to pursue their aim of raising money for the various cancer centres, charities or support groups who are working to find causes, treatments or to give support to those with this complex series of cancers.Etienne De Beer cycled 4,200 miles earlier in the year to raise money for The Haven. Supported by his wife, Patricia, who had received huge support from The Haven's therapists, Etienne sacrificed two years of annual leave to take part in the project and said that - aside from the funds raised - the feedback from readers of his book about the ride, "Through Blisters and Saddle Sores", was the most rewarding part of the enterprise. Each one said he or she felt "inspired to grab life by the horns".Natasha Fermor, whose breast cancer was diagnosed in May 2012 but was very quickly "upgraded to Secondary Breast Cancer", is so incensed that people in her situation seem not to be included in the pink jamboree, that she is planning a year of "bashes" to raise money for special trials for Secondary Breast Cancer drugs or to fund the salary of a scientist. She said "There is so much money spent on prevention that we have forgotten to take care of the sick." "Tash's Bashes" are under way and her goal is to raise £50,000.While I was in the USA during the summer, a very unusual method of raising money caught my eye. A Clam Shucking Contest was taking place on Fire Island, to raise money for the "Lend A Helping Hand" programme for the West Islip Breast Cancer Coalition for Long Island.So many people are determined to raise money for research and support - and there is a vast amount of successful research, resulting in new ways of treating the various types of breast cancer. Gone is the blanket treatment - one fits all - and in are coming personalised treatments, tailored made for each patient.Eluned Hughes, Head of Public Health at Breakthrough Breast Cancer - which is working to find these new personalised treatments - says that "By 2050 all men and women should expect to survive a breast cancer diagnosis". The survival rate for breast cancer has doubled since 1971 - but some types fare better than others. Triple negative is a very hard-to-treat type; however, work by Breakthrough's team at King's College London, has lead to the discovery of seven molecular markers that contribute to the behaviour of this cancer. Professor Andrew Tutt said: "This discovery will help develop targeted drugs to tackle this form of breast cancer and help to predict which patients will go on to develop metastatic breast cancer."ONCOTYPE DX - a test used after surgery to predict whether or not a tumour is likely to recur and if chemotherapy is suitable or needed - has been recommended by NICE for use with two types of breast cancer, ER+ and HER2- (chemotherapy will still be recommended for other types). Previously, ONCOTYPE DX was only available in the USA. Breast Cancer Campaign's CEO, Baroness Delyth Morgan, said "This is a step along the road towards personalised treatment and good news for women at intermediate risk of their breast cancer coming back, who currently face uncertainty around how likely they are to benefit from chemotherapy."Apart from the side effects of radiotherapy and chemotherapy, the time required for these treatments takes a huge chunk out of post or preoperative life. The London Science Museum is exhibiting a new type of radiotherapy machine. Built by Siemens it will deliver such an accurate dose - and in seconds rather than many minutes - that the daily trek to the hospital will be replaced by one treatment a week. The prototype is five  to six years away but, when it is up and running, it will make an inestimable difference to the patient.For those patients with the aggressive form of breast cancer - HER2 positive - Herceptin can now be administered by a subcutaneous injection, just beneath the skin, which takes two to five minutes as opposed to the current drip, which requires 30 to 90 minutes.Times are changing so fast and it is interesting to look at the results of "The Next Generation" study by Avon - the cosmetics company which has raised £16 million since it first began supporting the breast cancer awareness cause. After interviewing 2,000 UK Mothers over the age of 35, the study established that 80 per cent of the women had never spoken to their own mothers about breast cancer awareness but only 31 per cent of the women had not spoken to their own daughters on the subject. The conclusion of the study says: "Mother-daughter breast awareness discussions could help eradicate the fear of breast cancer and encourage more women to be breast aware at an earlier age and increase opportunities for earlier detection later in life."I agree totally - but is Avon not forgetting sons?On behalf of Breast Cancer Care, Philips Healthcare has created a Breast Cancer self-examination "app" - how to check and what to look for - which is aimed at everyone, female or male."Through Blisters and Saddle Sores" available as an e-book on AmazonFor details on Tash's Bashes - look on Facebook.