While I was writing my last blog post about Maggie's new campaign - Working Beyond Cancer - I heard that a close friend had been diagnosed with a rare form of cancer. What, I wondered, had been the reaction of his employer? Thankfully, for my friend, the reaction was one of instantaneous understanding and an offer of help was immediately given.Clearly, this particular employer does not need to attend the lectures/workshops offered by Maggie's and Unum (the vocational rehabilitation company) to help HR managers to understand the needs of employees diagnosed with cancer - but I can imagine that, for each one who reacts instinctively with empathy, there will be 10 others for whom an understanding of the situation is beyond them.Particularly for HR teams and companies, knowledge of cancer and its impact on people (and their families) is imperative. Maggie's and Unum aim to work with employers to "create frameworks to manage employees with cancer"; to educate them to understand the emotional, physical and psychological needs of someone with cancer; and to coach them in the best ways to approach the subject - ie what not to say.Rani - a secondary school teacher - was diagnosed with aggressive grade 3 breast cancer when she had only been working at her school for a very short time. Not knowing her colleagues well, she found it difficult to confide in them but, when she told the head, she was given great support and - remarkably - Rani continued to work through her treatment, simply taking every third Friday off for her chemotherapy. I asked her how she managed to keep working when the "chemo fog" descended. "Post It notes", was her reply.Being a "corporate junkie" means a good deal of early mornings, late nights and time spent travelling. When Bruce, aged 51 - a commercial director from Dundee - found that he had prostate cancer, he was already aware of his entitlements. He says that he was "very honest and open with my employer" and between them they worked out the "flexibility I needed, so that I could continue to work during treatment. Work was my 'rock' and I knew I needed to maintain some form of routine. I was clear about the commitment to my job that I could give, which was fitted around medical appointments".For Emma - who, at the age of 40, was diagnosed with a particularly aggressive form of ovarian cancer - a return to work after her treatment gave her "something constructive, purposeful and familiar" and "I wanted to spend time doing something that wasn't about my cancer". Emma works as an HR manager for a real-estate company and admits to the problem falling into "unchartered territory for me and my company". She says that her boss was "generous and flexible."Those two words - "generous" and "flexible" - sum up all that is required from an employer, when faced with an employee who has just had a cancer diagnosis. "Generous" with empathy; with understanding that some days will be better than others for someone with cancer; and with the ability to listen to the employee - and "flexible" in working out, rather than imposing, a programme, which allows for a gradual return to work.From the perspective of an employer, Andy Evans - a shared services manager for Xerox - enforces the need for understanding and the need to judge just how much communication is needed. Should it be a text, an email or a phone call today? Indeed, Andy even pays the occasional home visit to an employee with cancer, so that a connection to the job is not lost. He said "You need to be proactive, responsive, supportive and positive and ensure that the person continues to feel valued."Sensitivity, empathy and compassion cannot be learned (as we have discovered with nurses) but a better knowledge of what cancer brings with it - psychologically and physically - should be a vital part of every employer or HR person's skill set.As Maggie's campaign is launched, it is worth noting that - from research done by Oxford Economics on behalf of Maggie's and Unum - the number of people with cancer who could be joining the workforce by 2030 is 136,000. The contribution to the economy - if they returned to work - would be £3.5 billion.More importantly, though, for someone diagnosed with cancer, the loss of a job means the loss of self-esteem, purpose and identity. Employees should feel able to confide in their bosses - but it is up to the company to create an atmosphere in which the employee feels able to do so. Maggie's says that, at the moment, "Both sides experience an unintentional communication breakdown resulting in a loss for individuals, businesses and society as a whole".For more information please log on to http://www.maggiescentres.co.uk/workingaftercancer.html
or for the tool-kits - http://unum.co.uk/media/partnerships/