Ask ten people to describe their experience of cancer and you will receive ten different answers. Apart from the obvious shock of the diagnosis - which requires absorbing the medical facts of type, stage, grade, surgery, treatment and prognosis - the "journey" (as it is now described) for each person is influenced by how much support comes from family and friends. Advice on this subject can be found on cancer charity websites or from joining the many support groups. However, the other - and just as important - element in the person's life is his or her job, with which comes a sense of identity. For someone who cannot work after cancer, there is often real grief at losing a job because normality, self-esteem and purpose disappear too.The need to inform the employer of a cancer diagnosis is extremely important - but it is not always as easy as it sounds. Not every company has well-informed, empathetic HR staff (despite an obvious need for carefully chosen employees in this department) or Line Managers with sensitivity and - if that is suspected - the seed of doubt will already have been sown in the mind of the employee. How do I explain the diagnosis? Will anyone understand how I feel? Will any proactive support be offered? Will I be "written off" instantly and, as such, my worth as a part of the organisation diminished?The other problem can be work colleagues. Just as certain friends can deal with your diagnosis better than others and know what to say, there are always some who cannot cope (possibly for good reasons of their own) or who - from a lack of understanding of cancer - will say unhelpful words. "Are you sure it is cancer?" is one line I have heard. Many people assume that once the treatment is finished all is well. "You can put it all behind you now and forget about it" is a favourite line. In my own life, there are two people who - to this day - have never mentioned the words "breast cancer" to me and who disappeared completely at a time when I could have done with their support. One person told me how a good friend of hers crossed the road to avoid talking to her about her breast cancer diagnosis. For too many people the word "cancer" conjures up an immediate death certificate.On the other hand, some people are immensely private and would rather not divulge any information about their illness until it is impossible to keep it a secret; others might feel too embarrassed to discuss their particular type of cancer. There might be fear for their long-term job prospects, being overlooked for promotion, adding to financial concerns, or a misplaced anxiety about a change in appearance following surgery and a feeling that this life-changing diagnosis has put them out of synch with their colleagues.Clearly there is a huge problem to be overcome. Maggie's - the charity which works on every aspect of cancer and welcomes patients into their 21 support centres in the UK - has identified this problem. Lesley Howells, Maggie's Head of Research, described to me the work they are undertaking - partnered by Unum, the vocational rehabilitation company - to create better communication and proactive care in the workplace for people with cancer.First, Maggie's commissioned research from Oxford Economics. The result found that there are over 560,000 people who have - or have had - cancer and are back at work. There are, of course, many people for whom a return to work is not possible - or who make the decision that work will not play a part in their lives - but the research also showed that there are another 63,000 who would like to return to work but are "being held back by a lack of support" from their employers.A YouGov poll - also commissioned by Maggie's and Unum - revealed that many employers do not provide the right support for their employees with cancer because "they are worried they may do or say the wrong thing". So - they do nothing!Fortunately, Maggie's is doing something. Its campaign, "Working Beyond Cancer", is launched this Thursday and Maggie's is inviting everyone to share experiences - good or bad - or, to use the words of Lesley Howells, to suggest "ways to ensure people with cancer and their employers have the support they need to have an open and honest dialogue." Add the hashtag #workingbeyondcancer to a Tweet, YouTube video, or Instagram photograph and it will appear on the campaign content wall. To read the content wall log on to this website.Returning to work after cancer treatment - or being able to continue to work during treatment - requires "a flexible" plan, tailored to the individual. To this end, Maggie's and Unum pooled their expertise and developed an online tool kit for employees, covering communication, work options and how to strike a healthy work/life balance. A tool kit for employers - based on Maggie's and Unum's free workshops for employers - will educate employers how important it is to support their employees with knowledge, empathy and understanding and how best to put this into practice. This will be available in November. For these tool kits please visit this website.Employees must feel able to ask for help and employers must learn how to give that help. Maggie's is the conduit for the necessary communication between the two.