Next week brings October and the pink bonanza of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. As usual there are hundreds of different pink products to choose from, but please make sure you buy them from the actual charities. Far too many websites spring into action at this time of year, offering pink products of variable quality - and for which it is not always certain that the percentage quoted ever reaches the named charity.This is also the time of year when the anti-pink lobby raises its head. I have a certain sympathy for its opinion as I, too, am uncomfortable with pictures of exuberantly happy pink-clad ladies jumping for joy and drinking pink cocktails. Whilst there does seem to be a wealth of proof that a positive attitude is of enormous help when facing breast cancer - indeed many consultants believe that those with just such an attitude do very much better - this is a world away from some of the marketing ploys.Rachel Cheetham Moro, who was the author of the American website The Cancer Culture Chronicles, was deeply concerned that the messages communicated by the Pink campaign were being misinterpreted. In 2011 she wrote "Recently, whilst participating in online discussions about various aspects of breast cancer culture, I learned what some members of the public have become aware of, such that:Rachel had stage IV metastatic breast cancer and died in 2012. One of her main arguments was that the pink banner does not address metastatic breast cancer. For those whose cancer has spread, the knowledge that a huge percentage of the money raised is being spent on early detection, education and awareness, does little to help their cause. In 2011 Rachel wrote "Do you know that, in the USA, metastatic breast cancer (which accounts for around 90 per cent of breast cancer mortality) receives less than 2 per cent of the monies directed to cancer research."Earlier this year, Jude Callirgos (herself suffering from breast cancer and author of Breast Left Unsaid) wrote in the Huffington Post, that the American Charity, the Susan G. Komen Foundation - who invented the idea of the pink ribbon in 1991 - has angered its critics by "focusing more heavily on early detection and awareness programmes, at the expense of the "metastatic community". By doing this, it "helped boost its brand and fill coffers but did little to further its stated mission of finding a cure." She finished her point by saying "It also helped keep their marketing images pink, healthy and winning; as opposed to sick, pale and dying".Are we in the UK falling into the same trap? How is the breast cancer message of pink October received in this country? Are we ignoring the most vulnerable people - those with metastatic breast cancer? Do enough people understand about secondary breast cancer - that it is not "completely survivable" (although it can be treated and controlled - sometimes for years) and that it can be "scary"?There is one British cancer charity - Breast Cancer Care - which devotes a special day during October to those with Secondary Breast Cancer. This is the fourth year for this event and it falls on 13th of the month. BCC dedicates the day to publicising the issues affecting people whose cancer has spread. Last year the charity published A Day in the Life (what one day holds for seven people living with secondary breast cancer). This can be downloaded from the website, along with - nearer the time - more details of plans for the 13th. The new edition of the free Secondary breast cancer resource pack is now available, as well as eight other free publications on the same subject.If you would like to be involved on 13th please email the charity on secondary@breastcancercare.org.ukThe Haven offers secondary breast cancer support groups and Macmillan's website - as well as giving general information and tips - carries an online discussion group "We all support each other".Friday (27th September) is the day for Macmillan's "World's Biggest Coffee Morning". Maybe you can find one nearby to visit - or pop into MS who are, once again, the Headline Sponsor and supporter for the charity's campaign. Perhaps buy an exclusive Macmillan Victoria Sponge Cake or a cup of coffee? MS are giving 50p to Macmillan for every cup sold. Appropriately enough, Kenco Coffee and Silver Spoon Sugar have also joined in "The World's Greatest Coffee Morning", with their own events and competitions.Please email me with your views on Pink October. Where, how and on what should our Breast Cancer Awareness Month money be spent?