Shortly after I arrived in the USA, I was watching NBC's tri-state evening news and my attention was drawn to a story about a lost chair. This pink, adirondack chair had been made by a boy and his father in memory of the boy's mother, who had died of breast cancer. The chair - complete with a dedication plaque - had then been donated to Mary's Place by the Sea, from which it had been stolen.Mary's Place by the Sea - in Ocean Grove, New Jersey - is not dissimilar, in ethos, to our own Breast Cancer Havens, except that it is open to women with any type of cancer. The philosophy of this sanctuary is "to alleviate the suffering of women who are living in quiet desperation, by offering them an innovative, healing and peaceful respite". The necessity of such a place became obvious to Michele Gannon while she was recovering from a "non-life threatening" illness. How - she wondered - did women manage when faced with a life-threatening illness; how did they cope with taking care of a family; where did they find the support and advice they needed, not to mention moments of peace?With her friend, Maria McKeon - a fitness and wellness coach - a plan took shape. After a huge fundraising campaign, the charity was launched. Two years later, Samia Bahsoun and her husband, George, - already staunch supporters of the charity, which, by then, was looking for a larger home - realised that their house would fit the bill perfectly. The house faces Fletcher Lake and is one block from the Atlantic Ocean. Samia and George moved out and Mary's Place by the Sea moved in. At the moment the house is rented but the charity's trustees are determined to raise the money to buy the property and do the necessary conversion to allow for disabled access.Women, who visit as "Guests", can blend the elements of traditional and alternative medicine, enjoy oncological massage therapy, have spa and salon treatments, sample nutritious meals, try yoga or touch therapy or journal writing, participate in group workshops or have individual counselling, listen to prevention lectures and join support groups - all which are offered free. If it is something a woman wants to do, the charity will "pair them up with someone with the same type of cancer" for mutual support. Sometimes women simply come for a class or a massage - or even just a cup of tea and a hug.The three storey house, has six bedrooms into which women can book to stay for a couple of days - or longer if they have travelled far. Accommodation is free, with just a $10 donation asked for evening meals - breakfast and lunch (for daily visitors too) is free. If you stay, you can enjoy any of the services offered - or simply bask in the peace of the place, resting and sleeping.As with The Havens, Mary's Place by the Sea offers somewhere for women with cancer to heal in mind, body and soul. Major hospitals, medical groups and hospice agencies in the greater New York-Philadelphia metropolitan areas are all affiliated to Mary's Place by the Sea - and over the past 4 years, more than 1,200 women have benefited from time spent in the solace offered by the charity.It is no wonder that Michele Gannon has received enquiries from other regions of the USA and people have offered their homes and/or land. Once the house has been bought and made disabled-friendly, the mission is to extend Mary's Place by the Sea from coast to coast but, of course, this will require serious amounts of funding. Already, friends of Guests are offering to organise fund-raisers because of the obvious difference they see in the recovery of the guest.At the moment, Mary's Place by the Sea is staffed entirely by volunteers but, if more are to open, full-time staff would be required - more funds need to be raised. Like The Haven, the charity finds it "imperative that a Guest should come to us feeling that we are offering them a gift and that we require nothing from them financially." Being able to stay for a few days adds an extra element to a much-needed support programme.It is interesting that local hospitals, hospices and cancer centres all refer patients to Mary's Place By The Sea - and buy into the cause. The UK could do with similar places and I wonder - with enough support from donors and the NHS, would our marvellous charities like The Haven or Maggie's be able to extend their services to offer overnight retreats? Surely this would reduce the NHS's pressure on resources - both financial and otherwise?As for the chair - despite numerous pleas to the thief - it was never returned. However, two generous supporters have donated chairs to take its place. Quite how anyone could steal a chair so obviously standing in memory of a family member - and from such a place - is a mystery to me.