I could not be more delighted that Breast Cancer Campaign is publicly urging the NHS to understand - and take seriously - the side effects of Tamoxifen. If you are a reader of my blog, you will know that I have written time and again about these issues and, following my various blog posts on the subject, I have heard from too many women whose oncologists have not acknowledged that the symptoms being presented have anything at all to do with Tamoxifen.As Baroness Delyth Morgan said: "Tamoxifen is one of the most effective treatments for breast cancer, when taken as prescribed, but we also know that the side effects can be unbearable for some women."Figures from a study, published in the British Journal of Cancer, show that there are 5,000 women each year who stop taking the drug before the five-year deadline and that, out of that number, 434 die early; that too many women do not understand the possible consequences of stopping the drug; and that women who stopped taking the drug are costing the NHS many thousands of pounds in extra cancer care.Reading the countless emails I have received from women who described how difficult - if not, impossible - the drug is making their lives, I see that virtually all of them mention hot flushes (or, as one lady says "drenches" are a more accurate description) and night sweats - every 45 minutes, 24 hours a day.Joint pains come next - these are so bad for one lady who wrote to me, that opening her hands in the morning has become a long and painful job and others find even walking short distances almost impossible. Another lady describes constant leg cramps and muscle twitches, which interrupt her yoga sessions.Other correspondents describe ongoing fatigue - which might or might not be brought on by insomnia due to the night sweats - changes in the voice (which for one singer has meant a loss of her career - we hope only temporarily), poor concentration and dry skin which induces excema and weakens the nails.Several people tell me they have developed cataracts in their eyes - one lady, aged 55, was told expressly that she was exceptionally young for this condition and this was due entirely to Tamoxifen. In Canada, it is acknowledged that the drug affects the vision, so everyone taking is given an annual free eye examination.The lady who wrote and said that "oestrogen blocking has played havoc with my bladder", added "cancer-induced incontinence needs more airspace" - with which I agree entirely.My latest correspondent described the terrifying day when she became dizzy, lost her balance and developed such terrible breathing difficulties that the hospital suspected she had clots on her lungs. In the end, her oncologist decided that Tamoxifen was to blame.Since all these side effects are known, it does seem shocking that the NHS provides no support of any kind for women who are suffering in this way. Each brand presents different side effects and, as one lady wrote, "do we need a checklist for each brand?" I think the answer is "yes" and I think the NHS should involve itself in helping women understand the difference in brands. Nolvadex D, the original drug, produced very few side effects - so, is it the carrying agent that is to blame?Recent reports suggest that the alternative to Tamoxifen is Arimidex but, I understand from my correspondents, that this drug too is not free of side effects - which tend to appear after a month or so, just when you think all is well. It may beat Tamoxifen in the saving-of-lives stakes but it carries similar problems.Taking herbal remedies to try and counteract some of the side effects, may not be helpful - in fact, it could be quite the opposite. Please take care, because many (particularly those which are advertised as combating hot flushes and night sweats) may contain plant oestrogens, the effect of which on the development of breast cancer is not yet known. Having come off HRT, I was plunged into the menopause (and "drenched" most of the day). I found a herbal remedy which I took for about a year - and then breast cancer struck. Whether or not the remedy added to the development of the cancer, I will never know - but I do sometimes wonder.I made it through the five years but I was extremely lucky not to have encountered the worst of the problems of which many of you write. I have not included all the side effects of Tamoxifen - there are, of course, others, some of which may affect you. If you are concerned that any unusual condition has suddenly appeared, please tell your Doctor immediately and stress to him or her that it might be caused by the drug.Let us hope that the NHS will now step up and support women through the five years.