Recent figures released by Cancer Research UK show that, since the 1980s, the work done by medical researchers has prevented the deaths of 352,000 men and 166,000 women - and is estimated that the figure will be one million by the end of this decade."Some of the landmark advances in treatment include tamoxifen for breast cancer and cisplatin for testicular cancer - in the development of which, Cancer Research UK researchers played key roles."The development of new drugs and treatments is one part of the research but what about the other part - the "studies", the results of which are published almost weekly from various eminent cancer institutes.During the past few weeks, I have read press releases which have told me that:The latest study from the USA appears to indicate that women, aged 55-79, who are taking blood pressure medication, are at risk of developing breast cancer.As Breakthrough Breast Cancer's spokesperson said of the latter study "This study is limited in that it focuses on one area in the US, and relies on historic information, rather than monitoring women from when they started taking their medication. Much more work is needed to demonstrate a clear link between this, or any blood pressure medication, and breast cancer risk. It is important that women do not panic and continue to take their medication on the advice of their doctor."That is what bothers me. People will and do panic - and understandably so, because it is all so confusing. A research study which comes to one conclusion will, inevitably, be contradicted by another. Look at the number of studies on the link between HRT and breast cancer. Where have we got to with this subject? Is it now safe for women to take HRT or not?As a woman or a man - should we eat oily fish or take fish oil supplements? Research has it that omega-3 reduces the development of breast cancer - but I notice that the various charities' responses to the claims were extremely carefully worded. There was not a "yes" or a "no" in sight. Yet research by scientists at Queen Mary College at The University of London, who were studying oral and skin cancers, found that omega-3 fatty acids "inhibited the growth of malignant and pre-malignant cells" in squamose-cell carcinoma (a major form of skin cancer - which is difficult and expensive to treat), allowing for an inexpensive way forward in the treatment of those cancers.However, as a man - should you stop eating oily fish or taking omega-3 supplements? A recent, much publicised, study from scientists in Seattle warned men that omega-3 might well have a detrimental effect and might actually be a cause of prostate cancer.Dr. Mark Hyman, in an article in the Huffington Post, dissects the Seattle study and makes many good points about the - fairly obvious - flaws in the study's design. As I read his piece, I couldn't help wondering how many other studies had similar flaws. Also, I notice that, very often, the number of people included in a study is in the hundreds - surely it should be, at least, in the thousands - and that the time during which the study took place is surprisingly short.Breakthrough Breast Cancer's Generations Study does not fall into that category. It is looking at 115,000 women over 40 years (and men too) and it is hoped that the results will help to identify women who are at a high risk of developing the disease and will enable the development of tailored preventive drugs.Too many studies make headlines one day and then disappear without trace - leaving nothing but uncertainty and worry in their wake.