Fatigue is one of the aspects of cancer which affects everyone diagnosed with the disease. It can be at or after diagnosis, during or after treatment and, for some people it can become a negative part of their life.As I wrote on 10 May, exercise has been proved to be one way of combating this fatigue but it is, surely, a vicious circle. If you are feeling very tired, the last thing you want to do is go for a walk - let alone a run. Tiredness brings with it a despondency - adding to the feelings of anger and fear already being experienced.I wondered - is there some way of beginning the process of beating the fatigue, after which the thought of exercise might become more palatable? The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, has been conducting a research project into the use of ginseng supplements to help fight cancer fatigue.Following the success of earlier studies, Debra Barton, from the Mayo Clinic Cancer Centre, has discovered that "High doses of the herb American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) over two months reduced cancer-related fatigue in patients more effectively than a placebo." The findings were presented at the 2012 American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting in Chicago.Researchers studied 340 patients who had completed cancer treatment or were being treated for cancer at one of 40 community medical centres. Sixty per cent of the study participants had breast cancer. Each day, participants received either a placebo or 2,000 milligrams of ginseng administered in capsules containing pure, ground American ginseng root.Fatigue in cancer patients has been linked to an increase in the immune system's inflammatory cytokines and to poorly regulated levels of the stress-hormone cortisol. Ginseng's active ingredients, called ginsenosides, have been shown to reduce cytokines related to inflammation and to help regulate cortisol levels.Dr. Barton's next study will look closely at ginseng's effects on the specific biomarkers for fatigue. "Cancer is a prolonged chronic stress experience, and the effects can last 10 years beyond diagnosis and treatment," she said. "If we can help the body be better modulated throughout treatment with the use of ginseng, we may be able to prevent severe long-term fatigue."While this is an interesting result, please do not rush out and buy ginseng over the counter. I must stress that this is not the kind of ginseng which is easily available in the UK. It is the pure form of the American ginseng ground root and only available, in the USA, from the Ginseng Board of Wisconsin. Perhaps there are other pure forms available here but I have yet to find them.Food supplements are often very helpful to cancer patients but be careful where you buy them and check the ingredients. For instance, the sort of ginseng you can buy over the counter is sometimes mixed with ethanol - which can give it properties which mimic oestrogen and are, therefore, harmful to those people with breast cancer.As you are checking the label, please also check the strength of the active ingredient. My local Pharmacist tells me that there are too many products available which have only traces of the advertised supplement and - far too often - people in search of a dietary support for a particular condition, are spending huge amounts of money for no return.As with any prescription, over-the-counter medication or herbal remedy, patients should check with their doctor - or pharmacist - before taking them. There is always a possibility that there might be an unwanted reaction.