Following my last Blog post about three charities which were not known to me - or, it seems, to very many other people - I was contacted by Hannah Bellamy, who is the Executive Director of the combined charities mentioned: The Cancer Recovery Foundation, Breast Cancer Partnership and Children's Cancer Recovery Project. Hannah answered my questions and gave me the background to the organisation, with which she has been involved since 2011.Originally founded in America by Greg Anderson, these three programmes now come under an international umbrella. Mr. Anderson was diagnosed with metastatic lung cancer in 1984 and given only 30 days to live. The fact that he is alive and cancer-free today, he attributes to his Christian faith and the power of prayer, which supported him to a "pivotal point" where he felt he could achieve an extremely difficult act and "forgive a former enemy". He writes that, once the act was completed, he was overcome with emotional relief and, from that day forward, his physical condition began to improve.Once well enough to work, he went in search of people who, like him, had been told by their doctors they were "supposed" to die. His findings - from interviews with over 16,000 people - form the strategy and mission of The Cancer Recovery Foundation, which he started in 1985. He has written 12 books on cancer, its attendant issues and how "healing and victory" can be found through prayer.The UK branch was opened in 2004 and the original organisation now has affiliates, not only in the UK, but in Canada, France and Germany too.From the 16,000 people interviewed, it seemed that it was their behaviour - as in lifestyle choices of diet and exercise - that made the difference. Following the result of research in the USA, the organisation promotes the taking of Vitamin D - something which a good number of doctors and oncologists are also researching in the UK. This will be the subject of a future blog postWith two full-time and two part-time employees, the work of the three programmes within the Cancer Recovery Foundation covers cancer prevention, financial support for those diagnosed with cancer and educational and fun gift-bags for children with cancer.Survivor Packs with information about diet and exercise to help people make positive changes to their lifestyles - complete with a healthy shopping list, recipes and a directory of other support services - can be requested. The suggestions are all based on the information gleaned from the original 16,000 cancer survivors.With the increasing numbers of people facing cancer - and, with the diagnosis, often go financial problems - The Family Emergency Fund service guarantees an answer to applicants within 1 week and can pay up to £300 as interim or bridging payments until benefits kick in.Hospitals like Great Ormond Street and charities such as The Teenage Cancer Trust can request "Bear-able" gift bags for their child cancer patients. Last year, The Childrens' Cancer Recovery Partnership provided over 6,000 gift bags, with their age and gender-appropriate donated contents - from bubbles to word-search puzzle books to hand-puppets for use by the Play Therapists - all carefully selected to encourage development, healing, happy memories and sensory experiences. At the same time, the toys and books give very sick children a little of their childhood back and something about which to smile.Hannah was keen for us to know that the three programmes do not compete with other cancer charities but work in partnership with them. For instance, the Macmillan Benefits Advisor at The Haven (the Breast Cancer support charity) is funded by Macmillan Cancer Support, housed by The Haven but often turns to The Cancer Recovery Foundation for financial grants for their cancer patients. Other organisations - such as Maggie's - are helped in a similar way. It is clear that the name of the Foundation is not familiar because it is the last port of call in the search for funding and the beneficiary might well not know from whence the much-needed cash actually came.When I asked Hannah why she felt her organisation should retain its independence and not merge with another doing similar work, she replied that she believed people with cancer deserve a choice of charities to which to turn for support and help - "they deserve more than just one place to go".Looking at the comments below my last blog post, I would be very interested to learn the names of the charity set up by "gianna1955" and the charity for which "adviser1" works. It seems a shame to leave comments without including the most important detail.I am still collecting names of support groups and charities for the database of which I have previously written. The only change will be that the information will be given to The Eleanor Rose Foundation, which is producing an interactive support website for every type of cancer. If you work with a local or national support group, a cancer support charity or are an individual who might like to offer at a reduced price - or for free - services of any kind to those with cancer, please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk and I will add your name to the database.On a last note, the Cancer Recovery Foundation receives £110 per tonne of clothes collected by UK Export Trade Ltd., from Warwickshire - the charity bag company who posted the bag through my friend's door, which started the whole debate about small charities with no unique aim.