Last week a friend of mine rang to ask me if I had ever heard of the Breast Cancer Partnership, the Cancer Recovery Foundation or the Children's Cancer Recovery Project, because a charity bag had been posted through her door with its invitation to fill the bag with goodies and leave it outside to be collected. The bag carried the logos of these three charities and the charity bag collection company declared that the charities would benefit from any money raised.My answer to my friend was "no" but I promised to do some research. On checking the charities' website - which appears to host all three charities - I found that the combination is a registered charity. I sent an email to both the Breast Cancer Partnership and the Cancer Recovery Foundation requesting information. What do the three charities offer that others do not? Who started each charity and why? What are the charities' aims and objectives? When did they merge and why?So far I have had no reply from either charity.There are a huge number of breast cancer charities - some local, some regional and some national - and I wonder often if it would not be better to roll some together. That way the "back office" costs would be shared and more of the donated funds could be spent on the purpose of the charity rather than on the running costs.There is a phenomenal amount of money donated to charity every year - the £11 billion in 2010-11 was shared by the 180,000 registered charities - but the figure is falling and last year the amount donated dropped to £9.3 billion. As I often write - where would we be without the research and support charities? There is nothing being offered by the Government.However, unless a small charity is offering a service unlike any other - such as offered by The Haven, Coppafeel or the newly launched Eleanor Rose Foundation; all of which have specific aims and objectives - would it not be better to merge with a like-minded organisation?For a small charity to try and compete with Cancer Research UK in offering detailed and up-to-date information about breast cancer, its prevention and treatment would seem a waste of website space. When someone is diagnosed with breast cancer, it is to Cancer Research UK or the recognised breast cancer charities that he or she turns for support of all kinds.Perhaps someone from The Cancer Recovery Foundation or The Breast Cancer Partnership might email me with answers to my questions - and I would like to add another one.Do you actually receive anything - money or goods - from the charity bags' collection?Collecting goods via charity bags has a questionable past and, as I wrote on my Blog on 20th August 2010 "Genuine charities are appalled by the spread of fake 'charity' collection bags".If I hear from The Cancer Recovery Foundation or The Breast Cancer Partnership, I will include the information in a future blog post - or, if you know of these two charities or The Children's Cancer Recovery Project, please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk