Follow @SharonFGrigsby
Who could go through today without thinking about the horrific last hours of six-year-old Alanna Gallagher's life? I sure can't. Another news story full of red flags and bad endings.Alanna disappeared from her Saginaw neighborhood July 1, a neighborhood that's been described in news reports as relatively safe and close-knit. It was also a street where 17-year-old suspect Tyler Lane Holder lived, two doors down from Alanna.I keep trying, and failing, to square these two points in today's DMN news report:Former classmates, neighbors and friends said he [Holder] was a socially awkward teen who carried knives, joked about rape and made people uneasy. "He was the kid that you were always really nice to because you didn't know if he was going to come shoot up the school," said Mikayla Dawson, 16, a classmate of his from their days at Wayside Middle School. "He was an angry person."And this ...The probable cause affidavit for Holder's arrest, obtained by WFAA-TV (Channel 8), offers new details about the suffering inflicted upon a little girl who was known to ride her purple scooter alone in search of playmates. [emphasis mine]Shortly after Alanna's body was found, neighbors told the Fort Worth Star-Telegram: "Alanna was a gregarious child, known to many neighbors. She was also known to walk the neighborhood alone, calling on friends to play."In that same news story, you'll see that Alanna had been in and out of her own house much of the day on July 1. Her father reported her missing about 9:15 p.m. — two hours after police had actually already found her body -  and her family later told authorities that she disappeared that afternoon. That's a long time for a six-year-old to be MIA, even in the best of neighborhoods.In an already tragic story, it's all the more tragic that so many people know that Alanna's neighbor was a troublemaker and yet Alanna's parents seemingly were unaware. It makes the relative freedom the six-year-old had in the neighborhood all the more chilling.  