Prostate Cancer Awareness Month is well under way and a good number of moustaches will be making appearances to raise awareness of this hard to diagnose but most common cancer in men. Rugby leads the way. The London Welsh Rugby Club's players and staff have all lent their support to Movember - which now has its own charity, The Movember Foundation - Prostate Cancer UK and the Institute of Cancer Research. The Qantas Wallabies launched their support on an aircraft sporting a giant moustache and The Crusaders, whose squad is made up of players who have had cancer, or who have a close family member with cancer, now has a new gazebo, under which PSA tests can be given at rugby grounds.So, it seems to me, that men are beginning to be just as proactive as women.However, despite the growing awareness of cancers in men, diagnosing prostate cancer is very difficult. The rate of false negatives and positives is too high and the needle test or biopsy requires one of the needles to hit the cancer. If it does not, a false reading occurs. Would it not be better to rely on a non-invasive test?Of course it would, but how and where? This week I was invited to visit the most amazing establishment. Housed in a very unassuming building on a business park near Milton Keynes is the headquarters of The Medical Detection Dogs.This organisation is divided into three parts. First is the training of Medical Alert Dogs, who are trained to "sniff and detect" a change in blood sugar levels for a child or adult with Type 1 Diabetes. A minute change in body odour alerts the dog, who not only warns the owner or parents - by licks, nudges or stares - but also collects the necessary pack of medication. These dogs live with their owners, just like Guide Dogs. They become a vital part of their existence by saving, not only hundreds of visits by paramedics, but also the owners' lives. For parents of diabetic children, it means the difference between a check on their child every 30 minutes - 24 hours a day - and a decent night's sleep, knowing that the dog will wake them if necessary. These dogs accompany their "charges" to school, to work even on aeroplanes - they are the real-life equivalent of J. M. Barrie's "Nana" in Peter Pan. It is no wonder that there is a four year waiting list for one of these "Nanas".Second is the bed bug sniffing dogs. Midas and Lizzie work with their handler to detect early bed bug infestations - Midas can detect a single bed bug in a room, or even bed bug eggs. In recent years, there has been a 500 per cent increase in bed bugs - found in hotels, trains and aeroplanes and now finding their way into private homes. Midas and Lizzie are going to earn their keep and will be employed by corporate clients or pest control companies for early detection of infestation. Any money earned by Midas and Lizzie will be ploughed straight back into the Medical Detection Dogs charity.If all that isn't extraordinary enough, the third part of the Medical Detection Dogs' work is truly breathtaking. In a specially designed room, with a carousel which holds eight samples, dogs - of all breeds - are used to sniff out cancers. There have been numerous stories about dogs who have alerted their owners to a cancer by constantly licking or pawing the affected area, but here I saw dogs actually used to sniff out the cancer sample.The dogs - all specially trained - live in ordinary homes, not kennels, and come to work each day. It is clear they thoroughly enjoy the "games" they are taught to play, particularly as there are always treats as a reward!Dr. Claire Guest, who runs the charity and is also the Director of Operations, introduced us to her dog, Daisy - who, incidentally, detected Claire's own breast cancer and is the lead Cancer Detection Dog of the team. Dr. Guest has now been able to prove that dogs can indicate bladder, renal and prostate cancers from a urine sample (and breast cancer from a breath sample). Daisy showed us her prowess and was 100 per cent correct.Dr. Guest told us that breath samples for analysis by dogs is the way forward. Cancer appears in the breath very rapidly and these dogs are best at detecting early cancers. Humans might be able to detect an odour in a solution of 1 in 450 but a dog can do so in 1 in 50 million!On a trip to visit colleagues at The Medical Detection Dogs in Italy - one of the countries where the use of medical detection dogs is considered an important part of clinical work - Daisy and another cancer detection dog, Lucy, were asked to screen a sample from a patient whose recent biopsy of the prostate had been declared negative. However, the clinician was concerned and had a "gut" feeling the result was another false negative. The dogs both indicated a positive reading on the sample, the clinician did another 21 needle test and that biopsy revealed the cancer. Dr. Guest will be writing this as a case history for publication.This unique ability of dogs has been known for centuries but the evidence was purely anecdotal until, in 2003, Dr. John Church brought together a team of doctors, dog trainers and scientists and their first proof of principle study - Olfactory detection of human bladder cancer by dogs - was published in the BMJ in 2004. The study provided the first proof that dogs could identify a unique odour or "odour signature" that was associated with cancer.Daisy the Labrador and her team are about to commence on several projects. For the Orthordontics Department of Dundee University they will be sniffing breath samples to detect mouth cancer; for breast surgeon, Giles Cunnick at the Chiltern Hospital they will be sniffing breath samples to detect breast cancer; and, in the new year, a nine-month study will begin for the early detection of prostate cancer from urine samples.The research team for the prostate cancer study will comprise Dr. John Church, Dr. Claire Guest, Dr. Steve Moran and the highly experienced and renowned oncologist, Professor Karol Sikora. Early research with just one dog has shown extremely promising results and the study - Olfactory Detection of prostate cancer by Dogs Sniffing Urine: A Step Forward in Early Diagnosis concludes that "this work opens the door of volatile detection for prostate cancer diagnosis". This could lead to a significant improvement in the screening and early diagnosis of prostate cancer. It could also lead to non-invasive and accurate screening - which is much needed for this particular cancer.Once again it seems that the UK is lagging behind in acceptance of a new type of cancer detection and I was amazed to discover just how little interest has been shown in the Medical Detection Dogs. It seems that there has been a deliberate attempt to misunderstand and lines like "So - do you want a dog in every surgery?" are remarkably dense and very negative. Although, I can see nothing intrinsically wrong in having a medical detection dog sniffing samples in a GP's surgery. At least that might persuade GPs to test more of their patients for early signs of prostate or breast cancers. Of what are the clinicians or the cancer charities so afraid? Are we all not in this together - or are we actually all in competition with each other? I am beginning to wonder...In Germany dogs sniff out lung cancers and, in Japan, researchers were so thrilled with the dog, trained by Dr. Guest, who successfully sniffed out bowel cancer from breath and stool samples, that they cloned it! Meanwhile, work is being done elsewhere to build an "electronic nose" - at the moment this "nose" can only offer a 60 per cent success rate, way below that of the dogs.Particularly for prostate cancer, we need some form of test which will indicate an early cancer and these dogs can do this with great ease. Why not let them?Needless to say, the cost of this work is very expensive - £50,000 - and funding is badly needed for all research projects undertaken by The Medical Detection Dogs. The charity is staffed by volunteers, whose enthusiasm was a delight to see. Perhaps one of the large cancer charities might think of donating part of their funding to this extraordinarily forward-thinking project. After all, anything which detects early cancers with such a simple test will save inordinate amounts of money for the NHS and will enable everyone to be screened from a very early age - with no problems of radiation and no false readings leading to unnecessary biopsies, as was the case of the Italian gentleman who had one 10 needle test, followed by two 21 needle tests.If we could raise awareness of the remarkable work done by these dogs, the future might look very different. The founder of this work, Dr. John Church, an Oxford Orthopaedic Surgeon, believes "we have only begun to exploit the power of a dog's nose".And the picture? Well, this is Noah - sponsored by the National Office for Animal Health - who, with his brother will be trained as the cancer detection dogs of the future. For now, he is simply enjoying being a puppy! If you would like to learn more about the charity's work - or to donate - please log on to The Medical Detection Dogs' Website.