As Breast Cancer Awareness Month gets under way, yet another female friend is diagnosed with breast cancer and waits for surgery and treatment, while someone else I know is coming to the end of the routine check-ups and mammography. Now it is time to be cut free from the doctors and, apart from an annual mammogram, you are on your own and out in the moonlight.This may be the time when you "hit the brick wall" - or you may already have hit it and, although surgery and treatment may be over, you feel you cannot put the cancer to the back of your mind and park it there. It still overwhelms your thoughts and interferes with your day-to-day living.Friends - who, I am sure are trying to be kind and supportive - are wont to suggest that "it is all behind you now" and you can "get back to normal". With the best will in the world, this is not going to happen immediately - it might, with time, but many people find they have to wear a "mask of happiness" just to comfort those around them.None of it is easy but there are support systems available and, with more time to offer, a better option than your GP - many of whom have little imagination about just what it is like living with cancer, even though they may see such patients every day. To be fair, a seven-minute consultation hardly gives either party a chance and, for many people, seeing the same GP on each occasion simply never happens. It is totally demoralising having to explain it all from the beginning to a different - or locum - doctor.The stress caused by the diagnosis, surgery and treatment - and, especially a recurrence or spread of the disease - needs attention in itself. There are many complementary therapies which are proven to help reduce anxiety and levels of stress and all the staff at The (Breast Cancer) Havens understand exactly how you feel. I was directed to the London Haven by my consultant, when I "hit the brick wall", and there I found the most magical support from a team of specialist nurses and therapists.The three Havens - of which the Prince of Wales is the patron and which boast a full Clinical and Scientific Advisory Board - are situated in London, Hereford and Leeds. If the journey to a Haven is not possible for you, the charity also offers outreach days, an information and support service online and from DVDs and CDs - or an old-fashioned telephone call.To my amazement, I discovered that the first programme of 10 sessions is totally free of charge and you can choose from a seemingly endless list of therapies - from acupuncture or craniosacral therapy to shiatsu, kinesiology and the, now proven, Mindfulness Stress Reduction technique. There is a nutritionist, there are yoga, Qi Gong and Tai Chi classes and the kitchen serves delicious, healthy lunches. You learn coping measures - particularly to deal with the more unpleasant side effects of chemotherapy.Above all, it is a place for "you", whether you are a man or a woman with breast cancer - indeed, one of Trustees of The Haven is The Reverend Graham Sykes, himself a breast cancer survivor. Whichever Haven you visit, you step through the door into the most extraordinary peace and for your time there you can leave behind your "mask". If you find group therapy beneficial, you can join others for various support classes - if not, you can choose a one-to-one session from the entire A-Z of therapies on offer. The nurses are always on hand and the Haven (with Macmillan) now runs an Information and Support service which covers help with financial benefits and any matters of money.Even if, like me, you are four years on from your diagnosis, there are irrational moments when - for no reason you can fathom - a terrible fear suddenly takes hold. Very often you don't feel like introducing - again - those words "breast cancer" into the conversation with family or friends and, so, you take a deep breath and suppress your emotions. However, The Haven welcomes you as a "Visitor" before, during and after diagnosis and for the rest of your life - and your worst fears are heard and understood by the team.The number of people in the UK living with breast cancer is 550,000 and for each one - and their families and friends - the diagnosis would have been an emotional and a physical shock. The medical profession does understand the need for support at this time but is not able to offer it. The Havens are a car, train, tube or a bus-ride, a phone call or an internet click away and I have nothing but the utmost praise for the work they do to lift and carry patients through the experience of breast cancer.Visit The Haven's website for more details of their work, their fund-raising activities and how to donate.