Having been concerned for some time that my mother-in-law's Care Home staff were not able to give her the proper dementia care her deteriorating condition required, we decided to move her to a dedicated dementia unit in another care home. This ought to have been a simple procedure but - for financial rather than altruistic reasons - the owners of the original care home fought tooth and nail to keep their fee-paying resident.With the backing of the social services, we finally organised the move last weekend. Thankfully, my mother-in-law settled instantly and we are now reassured that she is in much safer hands. The trained staff in this Barchester-run home are a world apart from the well-meaning but untrained staff in her previous Home.In the light of the Government's plans to train one million Dementia Friends, should we not start by making sure that our elderly dementia patients are cared for by professionally trained staff?Under current regulations, there does not need to be a trained nurse on the premises - despite the fact that mood-changing medication is administered at will by carers with no medical knowledge. Can this be right? Should we not, also, ensure that the food dished out to elderly - often wheelchair bound - residents is suitable for their delicate digestive systems? Surely all care homes should take their lead from Barchester and tailor-make the menus to offer the right balance of nutrients? As my mother-in-law's previous care home's fees rose, so the number of staff decreased and the quality of food sank to an all-time low. A recent report from the Care Quality Commission states that "A quarter of home care providers are not meeting all five national standards of quality and safely". How many care homes are not meeting these standards either?Dementia UK offers training for those who work with older people and people with dementia. In order to contribute to best practice in dementia care and to share knowledge, it hosts two open forums - Higher Education for Dementia Network and Dementia Education Training Network. HEDN is for those with an interest in, or who are responsible for, the post registration courses in dementia care, based within Higher Education Institutions. DETN is for those with an interest in, or who are responsible for, the development of education and training in dementia care across London.I agree with the very eloquent Lynda Bellingham - who was interviewed on BBC Breakfast about her support for the Government's Dementia Friends campaign - that we all need to be much more aware of our fellow human beings and not be so quick to criticise when a supermarket trolley crashes into yours, when someone on the bus appears unsure about his or her destination, or when a wandering soul weaves a path across your route. It could be that the person has dementia and, possibly, is not yet aware of the fact. We need to change the way we react to a person with dementia. Jeremy Hunt, the Health Secretary, said "People with dementia should never feel barred from everyday activities", and it is hoped that those who train to be Dementia Friends Champions - who, in turn, will lead information sessions for those who want to be Dementia Friends - will begin the process. Slowly, around the UK, cafés are opening which welcome people with dementia and their carers - inclusion not exclusion.However, I wonder whether or not the government might think of diverting some of the funds for Dementia Friends towards Admiral Nurses - who are trained mental health nurses specialising in dementia care and supported by Dementia UK. At the moment, these nurses are only available in the West Midlands, the South East, London and the North West but, perhaps, if the numbers could multiply, then each care home could have an Admiral Nurse attached to it? That way, untrained carers could be guided in how to encourage and stimulate their residents with varying degrees and varying types of dementia - and then no one would be left in a chair next to a blaring television set for all their waking hours.To raise money to support and increase the number of Admiral Nurses, "who provide a lifeline to thousands of families in this country" Dementia UK's fundraising campaign, called Time For A Cuppa, will be running from 1-8 March. The charity says "From a small tea party at home to a large community affair or a tea break at work, the money you raise will make a difference". For details of registration and how to access the free fundraising pack (complete with invitations, bunting, recipes, games, Twitter hashtag etc) please log on to the Time for A Cuppa website - and for locations of Admiral Nurses please log onto Dementia UK's website, or if you need help or advice, please call Admiral Direct on 0845 257 9406 or email direct@dementiauk.orgIf you are interested in becoming a Dementia Friend - or in training to be a Dementia Friends' Champion - log on to the Dementia Friends website, where you will find a list of information sessions already in place. When this initiative took place in Japan, three million volunteers were recruited.I suspect we are going to need both Dementia Friends and Admiral Nurses to cope with the rising numbers of people suffering from this heartbreaking progressive disease.