"This is a story of appalling and unnecessary suffering of hundreds of people". So said Robert Francis QC this morning.The Francis Inquiry into the failings of the Mid Staffordshire Foundation Trust in the years 2005-2008 - when there were between 400 and 1,200 more deaths than would have been expected - makes shocking reading. It is the fifth such inquiry and has cost £13 million.Mr. Francis also said that people may find it hard to believe that these events happened in an NHS hospital. I am not so sure. I suspect that we knew what was coming - we have read enough previous reports not to be surprised.It appears, from the Inquiry results, that "Patients were failed by a system which ignored the warning signs and put corporate self-interest first and cost control ahead of patients and their safety". In other words, it would seem that the management were making sure they received large bonuses out of the misfortune of their fellow human beings. Achieving Foundation Trust status became more important to the management than the care of its patients. The numbers of deaths involved could be equated to the passengers of three jumbo jets.If this was an airline, surely the management would be faced with a charge of corporate manslaughter - let alone the staff who presided over the non-care of patients? Why is nobody facing prosecution for this neglect? "Whistle blowers" who did their utmost to draw attention to the dark world of patient neglect were bullied and harassed by the management to keep it quiet - again this treatment of staff is a criminal act. What goes on in the minds of NHS managers? The whole team were, quite obviously, aware of what was happening but - in the name of their bonuses and status - closed their eyes. I wonder how many of the management had relatives and friends being treated by the Trust?Sir David Nicholson was in charge of the local strategic health authority at the beginning of the period covered by the Francis Inquiry. He may have apologised on behalf of the NHS, but is that enough? Where is his personal apology for the time he spent with Mid Staffordshire? He now reigns supreme as CEO of the NHS - racking up £50,000 of expenses last year, which includes £6,000 of First Class rail tickets to Birmingham where he claimed to be attending official meetings. Perhaps he should stop travelling First Class until his customers - ie patients - are being granted the same level of treatment in his NHS hospitals?Following Sir David, came Cynthia Bower - later to leave the Care Quality Commission amid criticism of the regulator's performance - who confessed that "concerns had been brought to my attention in 2007 but, after an investigation, it was decided there were no systematic problems". Ms Bower left in 2008 along with the Chairman of the Trust, Toni Bisby and the CEO Martin Yeates. Jan Harry and Helen Moss who both worked as Directors of Nursing also left the Trust and Mrs. Harry was eventually suspended by the Nursing and Midwifery Council.A Royal College of Nursing survey shows that more than eight out of ten nurses believe that wards are understaffed to deliver good quality care - as opposed to when exactly? Clearly not during the period this Inquiry covers - which was under the last government. Do they mean that the bonus culture for management in the Mid Staffordshire Foundation Trust meant cutting the number of front-line staff? Even if this was so, how is it that compassion seems to have flown out of the hospital windows during the three years under scrutiny? Is care and compassion linked only to funding? Mr Francis speaks of the need to return to a "patient-centred culture". What do nurses and doctors think their jobs are about - if not that very quality? We are back to the issue of compassion. I fail to see how it can be "taught". You either have it or you don't and the assumption is that people working at the bedside of vulnerable and ill people, have this in abundance because they have chosen to work in a caring environment. To discover now that this is lacking in so many NHS staff is horrifying.One of the 290 recommendations by Mr. Francis is that in future it will be a criminal offence to hide information about poor care - this means everyone from porters to consultants - and about time too. Neglect of the kind described in the report is tantamount to cruelty. Aptitude testing, as recommended by Mr. Francis, along with regular checks of competence for doctors and nurses should have been in place a long time ago. To be able to stand by and watch an elderly person starve, dehydrate and lie in a soiled bed because the staff cannot be bothered to nurse the patient, is surely not a qualification for a nurse.Ciaran Devane, CEO of Macmillan Cancer Support, in response the Francis Inquiry's report, said "Above all, each individual working in each hospital must ensure no patient ever again experiences the appalling care that has been revealed at Mid-Staffordshire.""God Forbid it is happening now somewhere else".