I spent a very enjoyable evening earlier this week at No 10 Downing Street, rubbing shoulders with breast cancer research scientists, health policy makers, politicians and people living with breast cancer. Samantha Cameron was lending her support to an event organised by Breast Cancer Campaign, to launch the charity's new project.It was good to speak to the myriad of different people, all of whom work - in some way - towards "unlocking the cure" or who raise the funds for the work and are keen to be "part of the cure", or who lend their support by representing the cause in parliament.There were high profile guests too - like Jenni Murray, Presenter of the BBC's Woman's Hour for 20 years - who was there as an ambassador of the charity's work and as someone who knows all too well how a diagnosis of breast cancer can turn life upside down. Jenni, who was diagnosed in 2006 has spoken and written of her experience, her treatment at The Christie Hospital in Manchester and her decision to "go public" and share the diagnosis with her listeners.Breast Cancer Campaign is 25 years old this year and, during those years, the number of cases has risen dramatically. In her introduction to the main purpose of the evening, Samantha Cameron spoke of the "devastating impact that breast cancer has and the growing statistics that cannot be ignored". She said that "since the early eighties, incidence of breast cancer has increased by nearly 60 per cent."The work of Breast Cancer Campaign is purely to research breast cancer. In 2006, the charity set up the first Gap Analysis. The result was the identification of a shortage of breast cancer tissue for research purposes - and from the Analysis, the Breast Cancer Tissue Bank was born. Tissue collected from breast cancer patients (with their permission) is available for scientists from the UK and Ireland.Baroness Delyth Morgan, CEO of Breast Cancer Campaign, used the Downing Street event to announce the second Gap Analysis. This year, 100 international scientists, from across the UK, will join together. Their aim is to identify gaps in research that need filling, in order to accelerate the work and find new ways to "unlock the cure". Publication of the paper following the Gap Analysis 2006 was published in the journal, Breast Cancer Research, and was accessed over 33,000 times. Breast Cancer Campaign expects to be able to publish the new paper in the autumn of this year - with similar or more interest.Besides the Gap Analysis, Breast Cancer Campaign is looking into the quality standard of care for breast cancer patients treated by the NHS. If you have been treated for breast cancer since April 2011 and have had a bad or poor experience, Campaign would be very interested to hear from you.Your answers would be confidential and used anonymously in a report which aims to "highlight any gaps in best practice" and pass the information to the Government. The list of issues that Campaign is particularly keen to address is listed on the website - click on "News and Media" and scroll down to "Case Studies Needed". If you would rather not complete the online form but would like to talk to someone about your experience, please ring 020 7749 4115.In thanking Samantha Cameron for hosting the event, Delyth Morgan said "Mrs. Cameron's support in the fight against breast cancer could not be more timely, giving hope to millions of people affected by the disease; family, friends and loved ones."