This time last week, 1,600 participants in the national Facing Race conference were gathering in Dallas. So what was accomplished and who's got next?From the attendees' perspective, the takeaways were lots of hands-on learning to better challenge city hall, local isds and the media. The blogosphere is peppered with specific examples from the participants themselves; interesting reports can be found here and here.And a spin through the already archived conference workshops and general sessions provides a wealth of info for folks interested in the topic but unable to attend.OK, that's what was accomplished on behalf of the participants. What about the rest of us?Our editorial page wrote about one tangible next step: Our hope is that the Embrey and Boone Family Foundations will take the lead in using the findings from a first-in-a-long-time-if-not-forever poll of Dallas racial attitudes as the foundation for a pilot program to improve race relations in our city.The reality is that conferences and movements such as this one aren't easily, or accurately, reported on in the media because they don't have the kind of "man bites dog" or even "dog bites man" sizzle or simplicity that makes a news story easy to write. What comes out of the Facing Race conference and how that changes Dallas, if at all, is a matter of subtleties and imperceptible pivots that occur over a long time.Here's my hope: Bringing this convention to the South allowed Dallas and the local Dallas Faces Race coalition to crush some myths in regard to both the struggles and advances of this region in regard to equal rights.If a portion of those 1,600 participants went home with an understanding that Dallas is not still suffocating in the grip of "J.R. Ewing types," the 1950s-era Citizens Council, or the shadow of JFK's assassination, progress was made. And if the conference-goers ventured outside the Hilton Anatole and saw the diversity that continues to grow in our city, that's a message they will spread to others.We still have a heap of challenges, particularly around racial equity, but there are a lot of us here trying to do something about it. That's a message worth spreading.Speaking of which, I also want to give a shout-out to one racial justice campaign here in Dallas that I only learned about over the weekend. CultureMap Dallas has an excellent QA  regarding the local component of the Dialogues on Race project, spearheaded by artist Janeil Englestad of Make Art with Purpose. Billboards designed around racial equity themes are in various parts of the city and will be up through December 21. (Sorry I don't have a better photo of one of the billboards .... go here and you will get a much better sense of all four of them.)