The new year has been rung in and, with it, many more developments in the world of cancer research. Whether it is finding a way to an earlier or more accurate diagnosis, matching the correct medication to the type of tumour, harnessing the patient's own immune system to fight the cancer or challenging the side effects of medication, huge leaps of knowledge are being made. These are a few that caught my eye.One of the many difficulties which breast cancer doctors face, when selecting whether or not chemotherapy is required, is that tumours are often hard to read and it is not possible to know whether or not the cancer will return. Therefore, chemotherapy would seem to be the only way to lower the patient's chances of a recurrence. Unfortunately, among the patients going down this road will be some for whom chemotherapy was never necessary.Recently, a test called Oncotype DX has been available to private patients. This costs around £2,500 and the samples from the tumour have to be sent to the USA for analysis. However, last year, a new, much cheaper test, called ICH4, was developed at The Royal Marsden Hospital in London. This test costs £120 and researchers predict that it could save between four and five thousand breast cancer patients a year having to undergo unnecessary chemotherapy.As does Oncotype DX, this test measures the levels of oestrogen, progesterone, HER2 and Ki67 from the tumour after it has been removed. The results of the analysis show doctors a more precise reading of the possibility of the cancer returning. Chemotherapy can take a huge chunk of time out of a patient's life and its side effects can be enormously debilitating. If Nice gives the nod to this test, it could not only save the NHS money, but could prevent unnecessary chemotherapy for future patients.Meanwhile, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, a company called Foundation Medicine (led by one of the instigators of the Human Genome Project) has developed a test which enables doctors to look for 280 different genetic mutations which might be active in the growth of a tumour. It seems that, as the human genome is gradually being understood, it is possible to define a cancer as having mutations, not necessarily of its diagnosed type. Dr Michael Pellini, CEO of Foundation Medicine, described one case - "A sample taken from a woman with advanced pancreatic cancer yielded a response for HER2 - an alteration associated with a certain form of breast cancer. The woman was treated and her cancer responded to the breast cancer drug Herceptin. Few oncologists would think to look for HER2 in a patient with pancreatic cancer." This extraordinary development will, surely, change the whole drug decision-making task.Another aspect of the fight against a diagnosed cancer, which has invaded a patient's body, is the use of the patient's immune system. The question posed - but only recently answered - by researchers was why the immune system did not rise to the challenge and fight the cancer. Once it was discovered that tumours protect themselves by hijacking the body's natural "brake" on the immune system, it was realised that releasing this brake would allow a flood of killer cells to hunt and kill the cancer. Research work is in its infancy - and it is worth noting that it has not been plain sailing; normal cells can find themselves to be the targets too - but one drug, called Yervoy (manufactured by Bristol Myers Squibb) has been licenced by the USA's Food and Drug Administration. It has long been known that cancers like breast, prostate, lung and colon use the same brake to enable the cells to hide in the body. Perhaps this will help to advance the discovery of the hiding places of breast cancer cells?Funded by the Wellcome Trust, the University of Leeds, in collaboration with University College London, has been researching the chemotherapy drug Geldanamycin. This drug attacks a protein called VEGFR2 - which is associated with the spread of breast cancer. It is now suggested that Geldanamycin "may provide an answer to one of the abiding problems faced by cancer research: how to stop tumours recruiting blood vessels to fuel their development and spread around the body". Geldanamycin has been found to degrade another protein that triggers blood vessel growth.Dr Sreenivasan Ponnambalam, Reader in Human Disease Biology in the University of Leeds' Faculty of Biological Sciences, said "This is potentially very significant, because tumours secrete substances that stimulate blood vessels to develop around them, forming networks that supply nutrients and provide pathways for spread around the body. This drug may stop the tumour growing and spreading through these blood vessel networks." The drugs which are already available to try and stop this growth carry the risk of serious side effects but it is suggested that Geldanamycin - which has been under study for the past 20 years - "offers a novel and potentially safer solution because it suppresses the protein indirectly". The results are based on laboratory work - the researchers have yet to move to patients. However, Dr Ponnambalam says that "The cost to the NHS could be relatively low compared to the expensive existing anti-cancer drugs which are still under patent."Also in a laboratory only, so far, Oxford University Scientists at The Cancer Research UK/MRC Gray Institute for Radiation Oncology and Biology have shown that a technique monitoring high levels of a protein called gH2AX, found in many precancerous cells (in breast, lung and skin cancers) could be used for early detection of the cancer. Microscopic images identify areas of DNA damage and the snapshot reveals the location of pre-cancerous breast cancer cells at a very early stage; targeted radiotherapy is delivered, which works by boosting DNA damage until cells can no longer repair their mistakes and die; and the effectiveness of the treatment is monitored. The results confirmed that the radioactive antibody killed breast cancer cells and slowed tumour growth. Professor Katherine Vallis, who led the study, said "These intitial results show that it may be possible to track down cells with high levels of DNA damage, and destroy them before they become cancerous."Lastly, for those of us who suffer the horrible side effects of Tamoxifen, help and hope might be at hand. A breast cancer gel of concentrated Tamoxifen, to be rubbed daily onto the skin over the tumour site with far fewer side effects, is being developed. Researcher Professor Seema Khan, from Chicago's Northwestern University, who is testing the Afimoxifene in the USA, said "We think it may be a very good solution for women who are reluctant to take Tamoxifen. Delivery through the skin means there will be very little drug circulating through the bloodstream and the body". Time and trials will give us the result but Afimoxifene might be the answer to the number of women who find the side effects from their daily dose of oral Tamoxifen too much to bear and, far too early, give up taking the medication.A very happy and healthy 2013.