Sitting in on a discussion day for Breast Cancer Campaign yesterday, I was astonished at how much detailed work goes into all aspects of a research charity. The Communications Department was kind enough to ask me to speak at its event and, in talking to some of the team, I imbibed the enormous enthusiasm and staggering up-to-the-minute knowledge they all have about their subject.The Breast Cancer Tissue Bank grows apace, with virtually every person pleased to know that their removed tumour and tissue are being put to such good use. The reputation of the Tissue Bank has spread far and wide and I have even been the recipient of a request to use it from a New York Breast Cancer Research Laboratory. We have Breast Cancer Campaign - with the financial help of Walk the Walk - to thank for this amazing storehouse of samples.Indeed, I know I repeat myself - but where on earth would we be without the various charities who fund research or care? Who else would pick up the pieces after a diagnosis of cancer? Who else would provide the funds for essential, life-saving research? Who else would campaign for changes in the law; for preventive work; for education about the various cancers?As the next year unfolds, the way cancer is treated will continue to change. Personalised medicine will target tumours more accurately and fewer patients will undergo unnecessary treatment.The beginning of tumour profiling will emerge - more of this next year when I understand it properly - and drugs commonly used for one type of cancer will be suggested for another. Examining tumours at a molecular level will allow for analyses of the cancer's genetic information and proteins - indeed, the word "cancer" may, eventually, not even have a body part attached to the word. The disease will simply be called "cancer" and each case will be treated individually.The caring charities will continue to do just that - care - with an increasing understanding of the emotional impact that a diagnosis of cancer has on the patient, the family, the friends and the work colleagues. Helplines will expand so that there is always someone who understands just what a sudden cancer diagnosis means and support can begin.Charities like The Breast Cancer Haven will set up more centres and offer more of its invaluable complementary therapies to those who can walk through their doors. The Haven's specialist breast cancer nurses will continue to support patients before, during and after treatment. I hope more GPs will learn to appreciate the untold importance of the Haven's work and not so readily discard fliers - brought into their surgeries for display purposes - perhaps they will even refer their patients to The Haven or, at least, give them the website address.For male cancers, I hope that more men like Roger Uttley - who played rugby for England - will get on their bikes and cycle to raise money and awareness for Prostate Cancer UK. Roger's ride was in memory of his friend, Andy Ripley - also an England rugby player - who died of prostate cancer three years ago. Andy's cancer was found by accident after being taken ill with an embolism.As Roger said, in an interview with Alex Lowe of The Times, "I think there is a general unwillingness (in men) to accept there might be something wrong, or a feeling that 'I will address this later.'I receive many emails from men asking why breast cancer has so much publicity. My answer is always that women got up and made it happen. Men can do just the same and I hope that, with people like Roger Uttley, Neil Stuke and Ray Winstone keeping the subject in front of the public we may see a sea-change in the next generation's attitude to talking about the "embarrassing" cancers and seeking help.Thank you all for your comments, emails and support. I am taking a couple of weeks' break over the festive season and will be back in January.Merry Christmas.http://www.thehaven.org.ukhttp://prostatecancer.org.ukhttp://www.orchid-cancer.org.ukhttp://www.breastcancercampaign.org