Please could somebody explain to me how the Care Quality Commission could say, in its annual report, that it had carried out 15,220 inspections - of 20,000 care homes, hospitals, GP practices and other care providers - when, in truth, it had inspected less than half that number?It took an undercover journalist to expose the full horror of Winterbourne View and the despicable treatment meted out by certain members of staff to the residents, despite a member of staff reporting the situation.What was everyone at the Commission doing and why was Cynthia Bower (the CEO) ever appointed to the job? Considering she had previously been CEO of the West Midlands Strategic Health Authority under whose auspices over a thousand patients died from neglect at Stafford Hospital, who thought it was a good idea to appoint her? I understand that when confronted with the situation at Stafford, Cynthia Bower declared it a statistical blip and then, later, admitted it "wasn't on my radar". Breathtaking.Patients in hospital and residents in care homes are among our most vulnerable people. Surely anyone who chooses to work for the CQC does so because he or she cares about the job - in other words, about these very vulnerable people.More and more of us are living longer and will require residential care or 24-hour nursing. When my mother-in-law developed dementia, we were in the fortunate position of being recommended a care home for her. This has been a success. When my mother's Vascular Dementia appeared overnight to add to the complications of the Charles Bonnet Syndrome, the only care home available (and strongly recommended by the Social Services) was a place that resembled a Dickensian workhouse.So horrified was I that, after leaving her there for the night, I visited every care home in the vicinity and was lucky enough to find a Barchester-run home, which had a room for her and 24-hour nursing. They did her proud for the last 18 months of her life. However, I checked on the websites of each care home to read the latest report and discovered that neither had been inspected for some time. Interestingly enough, when I informed the social worker that I would be moving my mother to a better nursing home, she was very hostile - that was until she visited the Dickensian workhouse and saw for herself just how appalling it was. That was when she confessed that she had never actually been there before, but had relied on reports of inspections.Since then, in 2009, the Care Quality Commission has been established (enveloping the Healthcare Commission, the Commission for Social Care Inspection and the Mental Health Act Commission) as a super-regulator. I am sure that everyone assumed this would enable standards in hospitals and care homes to be kept up to scratch - but it appears that much of the budget was spent not on raising standards by inspections, but on refurbishments, junkets and Krispy Kreme doughnuts for the staff. The training seems to have been poor, and geared towards - as reported by the Health Select Committee - an obsession with "box-ticking" rather than inspecting the 20,000 establishments on their list.This is more than inexcusable because the problem of neglect in hospitals and care homes was already well documented. It was not unearthed by the newly formed Commission. In fact, you could argue that the problem was exacerbated by the lack of action taken by CQC - which was expressly set up to police the system.At the end of three years in the job, Cynthia Bower - who has been earning £195,000 per year - is leaving in the Autumn. She will receive a retirement sum of £200,000 and annual payments of £65,000. Is this fair or right?Perhaps the next CEO will accept a smaller salary and some of the money saved can be invested in proper inspections, so that the vulnerable members of society can have the protection they deserve. We rightly condemn bankers for their greed and their bonuses. Is Mrs Bower any different?