Every 10 minutes someone in the UK is diagnosed with breast cancer. With every diagnosis comes the question: "Why? Did I do something which caused this to happen? Is it my fault?"Since 2002, in various research projects - including Cancer Research UK's "Million Women Study" - hormone replacement therapy (HRT) has been considered one of the possible causes of breast cancer. Having taken the medication myself, I have wondered often whether or not this was the cause of my breast cancer.The fact is that nobody actually knows - not only in my case, but in all cases. No two doctors or researchers seem to be able to agree on the effects of HRT - good or bad.The Million Women Study claimed that HRT doubled a woman's risk of developing the disease; research in 2002 claimed long-term HRT use could cause heart disease, strokes and cancer; yet in 2007 the World Health Initiative said that women taking HRT had a certain amount of protection from heart problems. Osteoporosis and bone density were said to be helped by HRT - then that was refuted. The breast cancer risk has varied from report to report.The consequence of the MWS's results, citing HRT, was a rapid decline in women taking the hormone - about 1 million in the UK stopped - and there has been a decline in cases of breast cancer; in 2005 there were 1,400 fewer cases in women aged 50-59. Does this prove HRT was the cause or could there be other factors at work here?Now we have yet another review, which criticises the MWS and calls its results "skewed", saying that a "causal link between the use of HRT and breast cancer not proven". Dr John Stevenson - consultant metabolic physician at Imperial College London and the Royal Brompton Hospital London and co-author of the review - said: "So much damage has been done by frightening women off HRT, in terms of reducing their quality of life, preventing bone loss and fractures and improving the risk of cardiovascular disease".In response, the authors of the MWS suggest that Dr Stevenson and his co-author, Prof Samuel Shapiro of Cape Town Medical School, were "influenced" by their consultancy work for manufacturers of HRT. Such unseemly accusations among the medical profession does nothing to boost our confidence in any research results.Where does this leave us - and, most importantly, the women who have to make the decision whether or not to alleviate the (sometimes) ghastly menopausal symptoms with HRT?I asked Cancer Research UK for a response. Hazel Nunn, head of health information at the charity, said: "Women should not be unduly worried by this latest review of HRT and the breast cancer risk. Women taking it should try and use the lowest dose possible for as short a time as they need it. Starting or stopping HRT should be discussed with your doctor."In their statement, following the review results published in The Journal of Family Planning and Reproductive Health Care, Professor Dame Valerie Beral and Professor Richard Peto from Cancer Research UK's Epidemiology Unit at Oxford - authors of the MWS - insist that their results have been "replicated in over 20 other studies and the totality of the worldwide evidence is now overwhelming."Jackie Harris - a clinical nurse specialist at Breast Cancer Care - said: "Current evidence would suggest that taking HRT after the age of 50 is associated with a small increased risk of developing breast cancer, which goes up the longer you take it - but, for less than three years, there appears to be no increased risk. Oestrogen-only HRT, or Tibolone (a synthetic HRT) carry a lower risk than the combined oestrogen and progestagen HRT."She finished by saying "It is important to remember that the three main risk factors are being female, getting older and having a significant family history. As this research highlights, even if a risk factor is identified in a woman with breast cancer, there is no way to prove that this was the cause."So - there is no definitive answer: the charities are adhering to the MWS Study's results but the debate goes on.