A cancer diagnosis brings with it shock, stress and strain - not to mention fear, fatigue, and pain. The well-being of the patient is not helped by having to travel many miles for treatment and, as I have written before, some women are opting for mastectomies rather than making a 150 mile daily trip for radiotherapy treatment. This is a terrible decision with which to be faced.Sarah Woolnough is Cancer Research UK's director of policy. When the charity presented its petition, "Voices for Radiotherapy" to No 10, signed by 36,000 people, Sarah said: "While improvements have been seen in service delivery, England's radiotherapy provision is still not world class. Too many people are still not able to access the latest radiotherapy treatments in a timely way to give them the best chance of surviving cancer". The "latest radiotherapy treatments" are the new techniques such as IMRT (intensity modulated radiotherapy) and IGRT (image guided radiotherapy) but too many patients are faced with no possibility of "accessing" even the basic radiotherapy - never mind the latest treatments.Patients who require chemotherapy are often also faced with long journeys from their homes to the oncology centre. One such person was David Mills, who had cancer of the spine. His wife, Christine, drove him 60 miles from their home in Tetbury for treatment in Cheltenham. Christine told me just how difficult was the journey - she was anxious that every bump and furrow in the road would cause David pain, on top of the effects of the chemotherapy. Sadly, in 2002, David died but Christine was determined that others would not have to travel such a distance for treatment. The following year she launched Hope for Tomorrow, with her idea of providing chemotherapy closer to home. How? Mobile units.Christine met Dr. Sean Elyan, a consultant oncologist and medical director of The Gloucestershire Hospitals Foundation Trust, and discovered that he had a similar vision. By 2007, £150,000 had been raised, the first unit built and Sir Stirling Moss - one of the couples' many friends from the world of motor sport, in which David had spent his whole working life - did the honours and Gloucestershire NHS had its first mobile chemotherapy unit. Since then, Hope for Tomorrow has funded two more units for Herefordshire and Somerset. This spring will see a unit in Wiltshire and a fourth will be ready in the summer. The charity builds, owns and maintains the units, which are then loaned to the NHS, who supply the staff and pay the operating costs.The units, with a support vehicle carrying two nurses, travel five days a week to five set locations in their counties of operation - meaning that countless patients have far fewer miles to travel, less waiting time and a more peaceful environment than that found in many of the NHS chemotherapy units.Sir Stirling Moss is joined by Sir Jack Brabham and Derek Bell as patrons of Hope for Tomorrow and Christine's dream is to have a mobile chemotherapy unit in every county.In the New Year's Honours List Christine Mills has been awarded an MBE for her tireless work with Hope for Tomorrow. She says that she is "very proud and humbled to receive the award" and that what is gratifying to her is "that the concept of providing cancer patients with treatment nearer to home has been recognised."Many many congratulations to Christine on a richly deserved award.If you live in Gloucestershire, Herefordshire or Somerset and would like to find your nearest mobile chemotherapy unit location - or, if you would like to donate to this enormously worthwhile charity - log on to www.hopefortomorrow.org.ukAs I have written before - where would the NHS be without wonderful charities such as this one? May I suggest that cancer patients needing chemotherapy, but live in other counties, raise awareness of this charity so that Christine's vision can be brought to fruition.