There are ever-increasing numbers of charities - large and small. Most of the well-known ones raise very large sums of money but there are small ones which tend to struggle financially. They do equally important work.Poems in The Waiting Room is a brilliant, tiny charity which I discovered on a visit to my GP. "PitWR" supplies poetry cards to 1,290 NHS primary care units and hospitals (more than 28,500 were distributed in November of this year). So, as you while away the minutes waiting to see the doctor - always a nerve-wracking time - you can read the latest anthology of poems instead of flipping through out-of-date magazines.The poets vary on each card but range from the likes of Coleridge, through Edward Lear to modern writers like Frances White and Peggy Poole. Marvellously, having read and enjoyed the card you can then take a copy home.Each card carries approximately seven poems and is published quarterly. There is also a Collected Edition of all the poetry cards from 1998-2010, which sells for £15.00 including postage.Poems in the Waiting Room is the most widely read national poetry publication and the most extensive arts in health programme in the NHS, but receives not a penny from public funds. It relies on donations and trust funds, like The Beatrice Trust and the Artemis Johnson Bequest. But times are hard and, with the rise in postal charges next year, the £25 it costs to supply a practice or hospital will rise too.The wonderful people who produce these cards do it all for love but the charity's financial position is parlous and publication next year could be in jeopardy.If you can help with a donation please send a text via the Just Giving system for charities. Text PTWR05 followed by the amount - from £1-£10 - to the number 70070. The donation is deducted from your monthly bill. A thank you text confirms your donation.If you would like to donate to become a Friend of PitWR - which will help enormously with the funding for next year - and receive the quarterly cards plus the anthology, please email Michael Lee at pitwr@blueyonder.co.uk.I must just mention one other charity called Bens Friends, which does stirling work as an international network of online communities that provide support for people struggling with rare diseases.Ben's Friends has 12,600 members globally - more than 38 million people are affected by a rare illness (3.5 million in the UK alone) - and the mission of Ben's Friends is to ensure everyone with a rare disease has a safe place to go everyday and connect with people like them. As we know, communicating with someone who is experiencing the same illness or condition as you are can be very comforting.Ben's Friends was founded in 2006 by Ben Munoz - hence "Ben's Friends" - who suffered from a rare condition called an AVM and realised that a support network would be extremely beneficial.Like Poems in the Waiting Room, Bensfriends.org runs on a shoe-string budget and is fully supported by donors, sponsors, and advertisers. An army of volunteers helps out, no one is paid a salary, and all donations go directly to funding the networks.These are two charities amongst many, but each provides, in its different way, a very special service of comfort and support - and should be better known.It is Christmas Eve tomorrow, so I would like to wish everyone a very Merry Christmas and a peaceful 2012 - and thank you for supporting my blog.