Last Saturday dawned grey and dismal and the weather forecast promised sunshine and showers. However, for my 10 mile Pink Ribbon Walk, the sun shone with unpredicted warmth but the blustery wind kept us cool and blew us along.Wearing our pink Breast Cancer Care T-shirts and caps (some people wore splendidly lurid wigs) 720 walkers set out on the 10 and 20 mile walks - all determined to finish in a good time and to raise as much money as possible for the charity.We wrote the reasons for entering the Walk and pinned the paper onto our T-shirts and, on strands of pink ribbon, we wrote messages of remembrance, support or gratitude and tied them to the finishing line. It was a very emotional day.I was thrilled to complete my 10 miles in 3 hours and, by yesterday, donations to my Just Giving account totalled £2000.Along the way I chatted to some fascinating women - there were a handful of men walking too - and heard their experiences, their concerns and their firm belief in the overwhelming need for Breast Cancer Care.As we heard yesterday, from evidence collected by GP Magazine (from a Freedom of Information request), access to NHS care by 90 per cent of Trusts is being restricted. We know full well that there is a limited pot of money but, listening to the Pink Ribbon Walk ladies, it would appear that this "pot" is being mis-managed to a shocking degree and the postcode lottery is much in evidence.One lady - a nurse - explained that her oncologist visited her local hospital only once a week because the hospital management was only prepared to pay him for one day's work. Judging by the number of cases of breast cancer alone, I fail to see how said oncologist could see all his or her patients in a single clinic.I heard torrid tales of bad nursing standards, uncommunicative doctors and - in too many cases - a complete lack of post-operative information.  There are huge issues at stake but very few breast cancer units are able to offer support or be prepared to answer questions. More than 5 minutes is required to discuss vitally important subjects like mastectomy or reconstruction; choosing a double mastectomy or deciding whether or not to accept the suggested treatment.It was very obvious to some women that there was a mark on their notes to warn the medical staff that this was someone "difficult" who asked too many questions.  One doctor refused to answer questions because he had too many other patients to see.  I assume this means that no one on that day had a chance for clarification of worrying problems.There is a good deal of information out there to confuse and concern. To eat soya or not to eat soya; to eat only organic food or not; to follow The Plant Programme or not (more of this in a future blog); to take pro-biotics or not; what about supplements like Vitamin D or B; evening primrose oil; which hair and skin products are safe to use - or does it not matter if we apply chemicals to ourselves? The list is endless and the confusion grows. No one will give an answer - it is no good just saying "suit yourself".  We have put our bodies in the hands of medical experts, now we need to know the answers to questions which are not specifically medical.The most consistent complaint from the Pink Ribbon ladies, was that too many of their GPs had to be cajoled - and, in some cases, bludgeoned - into organising a referral. Some ladies went from GP to GP in the same practice, until, eventually, an appointment was made - sadly, often far too long after the first symptoms appeared.I heard recently from a GP that, under the NHS reforms,"the money will follow the patient".  This was deemed to be an excellent idea - which I am sure, in theory it probably is - but that will only work if GPs actually refer their patients. One lady on Saturday told me how her friend had visited her GP, shown the lump and been told to go away because it was purely hormonal.  Six months later, with a markedly larger lump and more pain, she returned to the GP who wanted to know why she had not returned sooner. Explaining that he had told her there was nothing to worry about and that if the lump was painful it would not be cancer, she asked "why should I have returned?  You are meant to be the doctor and I am meant to trust you." I suspect that was the end of that relationship.I heard about medical miscalculations, luckily spotted in time by the patients and, listening to these ladies - most of whom had to find their inner strength at a frightening time, assert themselves and stand up to clinicians - I wondered what happens to those people not bestowed with this ability?Breast Cancer Care is hoping to raise £1 million from this year's five walks. Judging by the determination of my fellow walkers, this will be achieved. There is a long way to go before breast cancer patients have all the answers they need, but more funding will enable BCC to offer more of much-needed support, advice and hope for the future.