For those of us old enough to remember sitting at the feet of the adults to watch the Coronation on a tiny, flickering black and white television, this weekend will evoke many personal memories.As a small child, I lived in Winkfield Row - then a tiny village - close to Windsor. For reasons, now lost in the midst of time, friends of my Mother had a key to one of the gates into the private part of Windsor Great Park. This enabled us to picnic in the park - encouraged by the exciting possibility that we might encounter a Royal child hidden behind a tree, also playing games of hide and seek. Sadly, this possibility was never fulfilled.However, this key also gave us entry to the part of the Great Park where - during Ascot week - the Royal family change from their cars into horse-drawn carriages for the traditional procession to the racecourse. A small group of us, with not a security person in sight, would stand at a respectful distance, hardly daring to breathe - the Royal family still exuded mystery and magic in those days - and watch the proceedings. We were always rewarded by smiles and waves and responded with carefully rehearsed curtseys and bows. A full court curtsey was part of my repertoire from the age of two.My late mother was an ardent monarchist and, as I prepared a 1950s high tea for three of her friends who came to watch the pageant on our television and raise a glass of champagne to the Queen, I thought how much she would have enjoyed this weekend's events. My son and daughter had the same thought - my son toasting their beloved grandmother at his local street party and my daughter doing the same at 35,000 feet, flying to work in the USA on an American airline
without bunting or celebrations.My mother, born in 1914, was the daughter of a particularly devout and diligent clergyman. Her disappointment as she discovered that so many of the institutions for whom she was brought up to respect (the church, the police, politicians) had feet of clay simply heightened her loyalty to the Queen.The opinion polls tell us that the popularity of the Royal family is now riding high and the Queen was visibly moved by the numbers of people lining the banks of the Thames. I imagine there will be hundreds of thousands thronging to Buckingham Palace for the balcony appearance of the Royal Family - reminiscent of those far-flung days when my mother, as a young nurse in London, rarely missed the chance to join the vast crowds making their way down the Mall. Whether it was VE Day or VJ Day, Royal weddings or coronations, Buckingham Palace was the focal point. Cheering first for King George and Queen Elizabeth, and then Queen Elizabeth II, I can well imagine my five-foot-tall mother dwarfed but not silenced by the people around her.The Queen's sense of duty and deep religious faith epitomised my mother's own way of living her life - and there is no doubt that she would have been as entranced and excited by the Diamond Jubilee events as she was all those years ago facing her monarch in Windsor Great Park.