At Breakthrough Breast Cancer's research laboratories, Avon funds three "Dr Avons", who study the causes and treatment of breast cancer. They also support Macmillan and the Crazy Hats' Breast Cancer Appeal.This year, to mark the Crusade's 20th anniversary, Avon commissioned The Avon Breast Promise Report "to see how we can help women to conduct regular self-examinations of their breasts".The results of the survey, which questioned 2000 women between the ages of 16-80 produced some worrying results. It found that a third of women admitted to either rarely or never examining themselves - despite knowing how to do it and what to look for. The survey also discovered that women who do check their breasts are more likely to be those who take care of their general health, exercise at least once a week and have an increased knowledge of their bodies. Young, single women and young women with dependents are not so likely to check themselves, and younger women were often not familiar enough with their bodies and their menstrual cycle to know what was the not the norm. Finally, the survey said that there is a "woeful lack of knowledge" among older women that age is one of the major risk factors and, most alarmingly, 46 per cent of those questioned said that they "would check if they thought it would be a positive investment in their future health".Having analysed the survey, Professor Janet Reibstein - a psychologist, psychotherapist and breast cancer expert - composed a five-step plan for Avon's Breast Promise Campaign.1. Promise to teach - create a legacy by teaching your daughter to look at and check her breasts, as a normal part of her health and beauty regime.
2. Promise to repeat - aim to repeat the checks every month.
3. Promise to remind - perhaps by an automatic alert on your phone or computer.
4. Promise to sync - add a breast check to an existing health, fitness or beauty regime, so it becomes second nature.
5. Promise to share - find a breast buddy and make a pact to do our checks on the same day.As Kristen Hellenga - who founded Coppafeel, the charity aimed at raising breast cancer awareness among young men and women - will tell you, it is vital to become familiar with your breasts and adopt a life-long habit of checking in your teens. Avon's Report concurs with this and suggests 12 is a good age to start.If you would like an automatic alert which is fun, log on to Coppafeel's website, sign up for its text alerts and name your breasts so that you can receive reminder texts for Pinky and Perky or Fish and Chips!For every woman who logs onto the Avon Promise page and commits to the five promises, Avon will donate £1 to a breast cancer charity.Although Avon has only concentrated on breast cancer in women, men can also develop this disease and if women have been shown to be bad at checking themselves, I suspect men are even worse.As for the T-shirt in the picture below, well, Avon sent me a Bra T-shirt and asked me to "get creative". So I did! I believe the likes of Claudia Winkleman and Yasmin Le Bon are among the celebrities who are hard at work on their T-shirts too. Everyone who signs up to the Avon Promise will be entered into a draw for the chance to win one of the celebrity decorated T-shirts.