Last October I wrote a blog post about secondary breast cancer and Breast Cancer Care's special awareness day for all those whose cancer has metastasised. In the same post I mentioned a new drug which was in the last stages of a trial, and had shown promise for women with certain types of advanced breast cancer.The drug was called Everolimus and, today, it received its formal welcome from Professor Stephen Johnston, Professor of Breast Medicine at The Royal Marsden. He said: "Everolimus has the potential to redefine the way this common form of advanced breast cancer is treated and, importantly, offers women an effective alternative to chemotherapy."Novartis, who developed the drug, announced today that "The Phase 111 trial of more than 700 patients has shown that those treated with Everolimus (Afinitor) plus the aromatase inhibitor, Exemestane (Aromasin), lived significantly longer before their disease progressed". The drug, which comes in tablet form, is "for post menopausal women with oestrogen-receptor positive (ER+) and human epidermal growth factor receptor two negative (HER2) either metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer and has been approved by The European Commission."The drug falls into the category of endocrine therapy and, interestingly - like so many other drugs - was first used for something completely different; to prevent rejection of transplanted organs. The drug works by preventing a protein called mTOR from functioning. mTOR is the controller of other proteins which act as triggers for cancer cells to grow. Up to now, endocrine therapy for breast cancer has been thwarted by the development of resistance to the drug. Professor Johnson said: "For the first time, clinical research has identified a therapeutic agent - Everolimus - which, in combination with Exemestane - can seemingly circumvent treatment resistance and substantially reduce the risk of patients' cancers worsening."Now - we need NICE to listen to eminent doctors like Professor Johnston and allow itself to be influenced by Breakthrough Breast Cancer, whose Senior Policy Officer, Dr. Rachel Greig, said "We are strongly backing Everolimus to be made available to those who need it."For those patients with HER2 positive breast cancer, Everolimus is being studied in two on-going trials.Whilst this is obviously good news - particularly if NICE acts quickly - I notice that no side effects are mentioned by Novartis. If you visit CancerHelp UK's website, you can discover all the possible side effects.Sadly, all drugs have side effects - and these are not restricted to chemotherapy drugs - but, as yet, it does not seem possible to identify in advance which, if any, will occur in each patient. However, forewarned is forearmed, and I believe it is imperative to fully understand the possible implications of any drug treatment before a decision is made.For more information about Breast Cancer Care's Secondary Breast Cancer Awareness Day on 13th October, please log onto their website and, if you are living with secondary breast cancer you are invited to "tell us about a day in your life", read the tips and "little things that have made a difference" — all written by people with secondary breast cancer for each other — or join the campaign for improved standards of care for those in this situation. As 13th October approaches, the Spotlight on Secondary Breast Cancer pages will carry more information.The Helpline number for Breast Cancer Care's experienced nurses or trained workers in this field is 0808 800 6000. Lines are open Monday-Friday 9-5 and Saturdays 9-2 and this is a free service.