In July of this year, it was announced that an anonymous donor had given £10 million to The University of Southampton and £10 million to the Francis Crick Institute for Medical Research. The money is to be used specifically for cancer immunology research."The Francis Crick Institute, where is that?", you might ask, as I did. The Francis Crick Institute is a consortium of six of the UK's most successful scientific and academic organisations - The Medical Research Council, Cancer Research UK, the Wellcome Trust, University College London, Imperial College London and King's College London. According to its website, "The Francis Crick Institute will conduct ground-breaking medical research to understand why disease develops and find new ways to prevent and treat illnesses such as cancer, heart disease and stroke, infections, and neurodegenerative diseases".The Institute is under construction at St. Pancras in London and it is hoped that in 2015 its doors will open to 1,250 scientists and 250 support staff. Meanwhile, in Southampton, the £10 million will go towards a new Cancer Immunology Centre, also due to open in 2015. Professor Peter Johnson, Cancer Research UK's chief clinician - based at The University of Southampton - said "Harnessing the power of the immune system is one of the most promising areas of new cancer treatment. These two financial donations will transform our ability to move new immune treatments for cancer from the laboratories in the Francis Crick Institute to patients, through the new Cancer Immunology Centre in Southampton."I was particularly interested that the anonymous donor specified his or her money should be used for immunology research. When I attended the Wellbeing of Women event Ovarian Cancer — the Silent Killer, I was very surprised to discover that none of the participating experts (Professor John Shepherd, Professor Henry Kitchener, Mrs.Sudha Sundar and Dr. Sean Kehoe) showed any interest in the trial of CVac, being headed by Professor Neil Frazer for the Australian company, Prima Biomed.Perhaps the fact that the interim results of the current CVac Trial are expected in October 2012 and Dr. Frazer says that he is sure the results "will support continued development" might spark their interest. To find a treatment for ovarian cancer, which might spare the patient the debilitating side effects of chemotherapy, would be a truly magnificent outcome.It would be wonderful if, one day, there is a vaccine to prevent all forms of cancer. We already have Gardasil, which is approved and now used in the UK  (but developed in the USA) for prevention of cervical cancer, but little else.Further work is being done in the American Mayo Clinics. Keith Knutson, the lead scientist at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, says his ultimate aim is to develop a vaccine that can actually prevent breast and ovarian cancer. Meanwhile, last year, he and his colleagues began ovarian and breast cancer vaccine trials to "find a vaccine which activates the immune system to destroy any remaining microscopic cancer cells, thus delaying or preventing the recurrence of the disease. Cancer has a way of evading the immune system. The challenge is to teach the immune system how to find it".For news about immunotherapy for advanced prostate cancer in the UK, I turned to Dr. Kate Holmes, Head of Research at Prostate Cancer UK. She said "There are a number of immunotherapy treatments for prostate cancer in the pipeline, including the vaccine therapies Provenge and Prostvac. These vaccines will not prevent prostate cancer but if they are shown to extend life and reduce the symptoms of advanced disease with limited side effects - as Provenge already appears to do - they could prove extremely exciting for the future treatment of advanced prostate cancer. Men with advanced disease currently have very few treatment options available to them and we welcome research into any new therapies which could improve the survival of these men without putting their quality of life at risk from unpleasant side effects."Provenge (Sipuleucel T) is already licensed in the USA and has been shown to prolong the lives of men with prostate cancer which has spread to the bone. This treatment is currently being reviewed by NICE.Yet to reach this stage is Prostvac, currently at phase three of its trial, but is intended to be used for men whose disease has recurred after surgery or radiotherapy. However, there is hope that this potential vaccine could be used earlier in the disease's progress.Immunotherapy has proved itself for two leukaemia patients being treated by the medical centre of the University of Pennsylvania who, last year - a year after treatment began - were cancer-free. At The Christie Hospital in Manchester, Ben Perdriau, from Australia - diagnosed with melanoma in 2010 - is taking part in Professor Robert Hawkins' immunotherapy trial. T-cells (known as the killer cells) are taken from the patient's own tumour, multiplied millions of times under laboratory conditions, and re-injected into the patient to target and destroy the tumour. Professor Hawkins has already had success with a virus - working like a vaccine - which attaches itself to red blood cells and is taken straight to the tumour.No matter how good a cancer drug seems, patients tend eventually to develop a resistance and it stops working. Immunotherapy would appear to be ushering in a new age of cancer treatments — the fourth generation — and our anonymous donor has given it a huge boost.