My blog has not been updated recently because I have just been through a truly humbling experience. My dear friend - whose fight against ovarian cancer, diagnosed three and a half years ago and which inspired several of my blog posts - died last Tuesday. I had the privilege of spending the last four days of her life with her - joining her immediate family as we did our utmost to ease her path from this world to the next.This cruel disease tends to respond initially to chemotherapy treatment - sometimes more than once - fooling the patient into believing that progress is being made but then the cells become resistant to treatment and overwhelm the body. My friend was prescribed Avastin, which did its job very well and reduced the tumours but - in the process - poisoned her whole system. Nothing else worked for her and, three weeks ago, we heard the news that she had very little time left.She came home from hospital, determined to end her days in her own bed, surrounded by her family. As I sat with her, holding her hand as each stage developed, I marvelled at her bravery and I marvelled, too, at the work of the District and Twilight Nurses who tended her and allowed her to die with great dignity.We hear a huge amount about Marie Curie and Macmillan Nurses but not nearly enough about District Nurses. The team of ladies who looked after my friend could not have done more for her as, with gentle professionalism, they administered the much-needed pain relief, turned her or washed her - sometimes coming to the house, in response to a call from her husband, several times a day. They spent time talking to the family, giving them emotional and practical support and were all the epitome of what a nurse should be. Along with The Twilight Nurses - who work during the evenings and settle the patient for the night - the District Nurses proved that it is not possible to be a good nurse unless you have innate compassion. It is not something which can be taught as part of a university course - these ladies were born to nurse.I am sad to say that not all of the Marie Curie nurses (who cover the nights in my friend's geographical area) lived up to the charity's reputation. This was a great disappointment to us and caused much unnecessary anguish. I was surprised at Marie Curie's choice of one particular nurse and could not help wondering whether or not she had been recruited only because Marie Curie is short of nurses. She fell very far short of a professional palliative carer - let alone a nurse.The nurse's attitude was arrogant and unprofessional. She - who had never met her patient before - claimed she could detect no signs of pain and had to be persuaded by my friend's daughter to get off her backside and administer pain relief. This she did eventually - with accompanying moans.The nurse - who was supposed to check on her patient regularly during the night - was found by my friend's daughter snoring on the sofa at 4am. If that wasn't bad enough, when the nurse left - bang on time - we discovered two used hypodermic needles by my friend's bed. With a four-year-old in the house, that was extremely dangerous.Consequently, my friend's husband contacted Marie Curie - who were horrified at the nurse's behaviour and agreed to send a different nurse the next night. Unfortunately, there was not one to be found. My friend died that night.It would be a shame if this nurse's behaviour is allowed to detract from the amazing work of the rest of the Marie Curie team but what would have happened if she had been attending patients without a family to monitor her nursing or be prepared to complain?Macmillan Cancer Support is campaigning for everyone to have the choice of ending their life in their own home, if they so wish. At the moment, only 27 per cent of people are able to do so. In the latest Care and Support White Paper, it states that the Department of Health "sees much merit in providing free social care for people at the end of life. The Department of Health is now committed to looking at how this might work in practice." (If you log onto macmillan.org.uk you can sign a petition calling on the government to take action).May I suggest that one of the first steps should be to stop the redundancy programme for District Nurses. Clearly, if we are going to support a patient's wish for end-of-life care in his or her home, we must not allow the NHS to lose the very people who will make this scheme possible. We already have too few of these nurses.District Nurses are the unsung heroes of the NHS and I witnessed the most amazingly high standard of care and commitment which they gave to their patient and her family - and it made a sad contrast to the low standards offered by some hospital nurses.Ovarian cancer is called the "silent" cancer because it has often progressed too far before it is diagnosed. There is, as yet, no specific test to determine evidence of this form of cancer - unlike a mammogram (which may have its faults but is far better than nothing) which can detect early breast cancer. Let us hope that funds raised by the various Ovarian Cancer Charities and Cancer Research UK will go towards - not only finding a cure - but finding a way to identify ovarian cancer in its early stages, making treatment a viable possibility.The "silent" cancer has taken the life of a beautiful, elegant and caring lady - and she leaves a big gap in so many lives - but I feel hugely proud to have been able to share her last days.For symptoms and information, log onto one of the Ovarian Cancer Charities: Target Ovarian Cancer, Ovarian Cancer Action, Ovacome or The Eve Appeal.