A cancer diagnosis can, sometimes, bring with it financial problems which only add to the emotional turmoil of the patient. There may be children or elderly parents in the mix; there may be a partner who also is unable to work; or the patient may be on his or her own, with no one able to offer financial support. The questions are endless - how will the rent or mortgage be paid? How will we eat? What will happen to us? How will I care for my partner? Will I have to give up work? What happens when sickness benefit expires? These frightening questions are swiftly followed by many more once you begin to look into the unbelievable confusing world of benefits, most of which seem to have their names changed on an annual basis - particularly and inexplicably those applying to the over 65s, which pay out the same but have to be called by a different name - as our various governments toy with the system. None of this helps those cancer sufferers who would like to retain their independence but simply cannot find their way through the myriad of benefits. Not to mention being able to understand whether or not they qualify for financial support.Fortunately, there are various charities which offer a financial advice service, but not enough people know about the possibility of discussing financial problems with an expert - for free and in total confidence. It is often possible to have a telephone consultation - if that eases the embarrassment of a face-to-face chat.Maggie's Cancer Caring Centres - the drop-in annexes to some hospitals in the UK and Scotland - have benefits experts on hand to help. Check on Maggie's website to see if there is a centre near you and while I am on the subject of Maggie's, their annual fundraising London Night Hike (a 10 or 20 mile nocturnal walk) takes place on Friday, September 21. This year, among landmark buildings only open to the public for this event, will be the City Hall, Leadenhall Market, the Royal Institute of British Architects, the Royal Geographical Society and 20 Gresham Street - plus the Roca London Gallery, Maggie's London Centre and the London Eye. The aim is to top the £500,000 raised last year - which is enough to run one Maggie's centre for a year.Apologies, I digress - back to the original subject. Macmillan Cancer Support has teamed up with The Breast Cancer Haven to offer two new kinds of free support for anyone with cancer - and not just with breast cancer but any form of this disease, so my male readers will be pleased to see that they are most welcome too.Firstly, Edem Onofeghara will be offering advice on welfare benefits and financial information. She will be able to help you check your entitlement to state benefits and to claim those benefits - i.e. talk you through the dreaded form-filling exercise. To make an individual appointment, call The Haven's reception desk on 020 7384 0099 or just drop in on a Monday morning between 10.30am and 12.30pm (perhaps check with the reception desk first just in case the session is cancelled). If you would rather talk over the telephone, call the same number and - should Edem be busy and not able to speak to you right then, leave a message and Edem will call you back. Take a look at The Haven's website for money management seminars which will run monthly - the "What's on Calendar" will give you the details.Also at The Haven in Fulham - and also in conjunction with Macmillan Cancer Support - you can find Gladys Anyanwu, who is the new information and support manager. If you have had a cancer diagnosis; need information about cancer; have survived cancer; are living with the consequences of a cancer diagnosis; are looking to reduce the risk of cancer; have someone close to you with cancer; are a health care professional; or need a link to a local or national support service or a self-help and support group, Gladys will be able to help or point you in the right direction. She will be at The Haven in Fulham from Monday to Friday 9.30am-5.30pm. She will have regular drop-in sessions on Tuesday from 10.00am-12.00pm and Thursday from 2.30pm-4.30pm. For individual appointments, please call The Haven's Reception on 020 7384 0099 or telephone consultations are available on all weekdays between 9.30am and 5.20pm on the same number.Dr Caroline Hoffman, the clinical and research director at The Havens, said how delighted all at The Haven are to be teaming up with Macmillan to provide these services because they are so important to cancer patients but "sometimes little discussed". She went on to say that "having the right information when you need it most and getting help with money worries can make an enormous difference to the stress of the physical and emotional challenges already being faced."The Haven has opened its door to people with all forms of cancer and I suspect Edem and Gladys will find themselves in much demand.