A piece of research - funded by Cancer Research UK and led by Profesor Max Parkin of Queen Mary College, London - called "The Fraction of Cancer Attributable to Lifestyle and Environmental Factors in the UK in 2010" was published yesterday.The evidence suggests that over 100,000 cases of cancer - half the number diagnosed in the UK each year - are preventable. These cancers are caused by different combinations of the risk factors - identified by the report as cigarettes, diet, alcohol and obesity."40 per cent of cancers are caused by things we have the power to change".Although Harpal Kumar from Cancer Research UK was quick to make the point that this is not a question of blame, I suspect that the way this report is headlined will not help those already diagnosed with cancer.Once you discover your diagnosis you immediately question yourself. What did I do wrong? Was it my fault? If so, how do I tell the family that I have brought this on myself? Now that the news has carried the results of this report, will cancer patients feel the need to hide themselves away - lest their family and friends "blame" them for developing the disease? The massive anxiety caused by the word "cancer", the possible financial hardship and the effects of treatment are enough to bear without having the blame laid at your door.Lifestyle choices may have a huge effect on our general health - or they may not. There are constant examples of people who did not conform to the suggested lifestyle and live long and productive lives. Professor Parkin admitted that there is no promise that people who do not fall into his category will escape cancer.Basically, it seems that men do not eat enough fruit and vegetables and women are too fat. Obesity in women proved to be more risky than alcohol and 23,000 cases of lung cancer could be prevented if people stopped smoking.Surely, it is a question of moderation in all things? Whilst exercise is, clearly, a vital ingredient of a healthy life, taken too far it can cause its own problems. My husband - who is not obese - has run every day of his adult life and, now, requires a new knee. Perhaps running twice a week would have enabled him to have kept his knee for longer? Who knows? His surgeon told us that there are 50,000 knee operations carried out in London each year - most are for people who are overweight.I have written before about the female GP - who was at least 3 stone overweight - who told me (without batting an eyelid) that she felt it was more harmful to smoke one cigarette a day than to be overweight. Did she ever look in the mirror? Was she coming to the aid of her obese patients? Presumably not, as she was in denial of her own problem.Our 21st century living comprises labour-saving devices and ready-made meals - all fine in their place, but I wonder, should we try and slow down the pace of our lives so that we have more time and less stress? The latter is not mentioned in the report as a cause of cancer but I agree with the many people who are convinced it should be at the top of the list.Exercise is a good way to alleviate some of the stresses and strains of life - even if it is just walking up and down the stairs instead of taking the lift. I was interested to hear about the architects in New York who are designing new buildings with no obvious lift on the entrance floor. Everyone has to walk up at least one flight of stairs before they find the elevators - obviously, if you are disabled, there is a special lift available.Professor Karol Sikora has suggested that mouth swabs should be taken from people who attend gyms, analysed and the results given to them with advice on how to change their lifestyle. Good idea - but I suspect that the people he is targeting do not go to the gym.I agree absolutely that prevention is far better than cure - but, if the report's findings are to enjoy credibility, a cultural shift is needed and more research into other cancer causing factors not covered in this report.