Casting an eye over the comments left below my various blog posts, I came across one from Normandee, who was lamenting the fact that none of my posts - up to then - had covered male cancers. Well - I hope he has kept on reading because Movember is here and I am including prostate and other male cancers in my blog posts - and will continue to do so even after moustaches have been shaved.Early detection of prostate cancer is not easy. Even if men referred themselves to GPs on a regular basis, it seems doctors are not inclined to administer the appropriate checks and have to be cajoled into so doing. Why, I wonder? Is it a question of cost? Of time? Of justification? Or too much red tape? Consequently, far too many cases of prostate cancer are allowed to advance to a point where the only option is treatment which can carry with it unpleasant side effects.There is a good deal of research work in the UK - particularly on simple, cheap and easy-to-use urine tests - and in the USA, scientists at John Hopkins University in Baltimore have made a very interesting discovery. The foxglove - a beautiful but poisonous flower which is in most of our gardens - produces chemicals which can reduce the spread of prostate cancer. Their latest research suggests that it shows promise in fighting breast cancer too. Fewer cancer cells spread to the lungs and the tumours that did spread were smaller.The drug, digoxin, made from the flower, has been used for generations to treat congestive heart failure - which means it is easy to produce and inexpensive. Presumably it has fewer and less devastating side effects too? This is very good news for prostate cancer sufferers.I find this sort of research fascinating. Just what was it, one day, that made a particular researcher think "Ah, let us try the foxglove."While the study leader, Dr Gregg Semenza, is hoping that his new possibility can be entered into clinical trials, The American Food and Drug Administration has just revoked its approval of the drug Avastin as a treatment for breast cancer. The FDA cited clinical trials which have shown that the drug was not helping enough patients - it does not work for everyone - and can produce very serious side effects like severely high blood pressure and haemorraging.In the UK it has been licensed by the European Medicines Agency for treating advanced breast cancer - but NICE has said that it should not be used for this purpose. Does this mean that you can apply to the Cancer Drug Fund to cover the cost - as the drug has been licensed, just not approved by NICE?We are back to the same argument about "value for money" - i.e. whether there is sufficient evidence that a particular drug prolongs life - not to mention whether or not the patients should be expected to cope with side effects which can be a danger in themselvesThe gentleman commenter MJHopeC - who I assume is male! - always writes with irritation beneath my blog post when I quote statistics. He will have to forgive a few more figures:-
Macmillan Cancer Support says "There are 2 million people living with cancer in the UK. Of people who die, 42% will have had a cancer diagnosis and for 64% of those people, it will be the cancer which causes their deaths."Pertinent to my point is the next quote: "Whilst people are living longer with cancer, they are not necessarily living well. Only 36% will not have any health problems related to their cancer treatment." This phrase is, surely, another way of saying "side effects". Something which has arisen because of the drugs and/or treatment used.Dr. Diana Greenfield leads a "late effects clinic" at the Weston Park Hospital in Sheffield. She says "We are becoming more aware of the long-term and late effects of cancer and its treatment. In our clinic we see patients who develop chronic health problems as a direct result of the treatment they received for cancer. We are beginning to consider how we best care for patients with treatment consequences. Simple measures, such as individual care plans and helping patients to make the right health choices for themselves will help".That seems to me to be crucial. Personalised medicine, along with helping - and allowing - patients to voice their opinion and decisions on treatment, after they are given all the information about possible side-effects, both physical and emotional.Is the clinic in Sheffield the only one in the UK? If you know of any other Late Effects Clinics , please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk