Having read my last blog post about prostate cancer, my son - who is a rugby writer - alerted me to a rugby club called the Crusaders. This is no ordinary rugby club - the qualification for membership requires that you or a member of your family has, or has had, cancer. They sport two teams - the Vets for over 35 year olds and the Golden Oldies.Mark Dainter (ex-London Wasps and Nottingham RFC) - whose professional rugby career was cut short when he was diagnosed with a rare cancer called a schwannoma, which appeared in his chest - plays for the Crusaders' Golden Oldies team. This team plays a somewhat gentler game than regular rugby as full-on tackling would be too dangerous for them.Mark told me: "The great thing about sport is that it is something which bonds people together like a family. The friendships you make last a lifetime and, because we have all experienced cancer in one way or another, there is always someone to talk to who understands and can tell you what to expect. We can also help others through the grieving process and stress of losing a loved one to cancer."By spreading the word from the pitch to the changing rooms and - inevitably and, possibly, most importantly - into the bar (!), the Crusaders aim to persuade men to be more aware of the symptoms of cancer, particularly those pertaining to the male sex.As I have written before, men tend to ignore cancer symptoms - if they recognise them at all - but it is the aim of Crusaders to educate other men and, as Mark says: "to stress the dangers of ignorance and the stupidity of not going to the doctor".I suspect men are even more embarrassed than women when it comes to intimate parts of the body - and too many men are not good at sharing worries and concerns, so prostate, testicular and bowel cancers go undetected until the symptoms become impossible to ignore. Sadly, by then the cancer will have taken a very strong hold and beating it might not be possible. A lump tends not to go away if ignored.Breast, ovarian and cervical cancers are discussed on broadcasts and in the newspapers; pink ribbons are worn and races are run; support groups and advice centres abound - but not so for male cancers. Expatintheusa - one of the commenters below my last blog on prostate cancer - suggested that "Maybe it's up to we women to spread that word for them." Certainly it is women who have done -and are continuing to do - a splendid job raising awareness of female cancers, but Crusaders have picked up the baton and are determined that men should be prepared to feel it is "better to be embarrassed for a few hours than dead."Recently, in Scotland, the Crusaders fielded an international team, with players from Scotland, Ireland, England, Chile, Sweden and The Netherlands - their ages ranged from 35 to 84. Half of these players were cancer survivors of prostate, testicular, brain, stomach, nerve and breast. Next year Crusaders have plans to develop more teams (including one for women) and names such as world cup winners Richard Hill and Phil Vickery and former French International Serge Betsen, are being mentioned to play for the Crusaders' Legends team in April at the Scottish Melrose Sevens Vets tournament. Then there is a rugby festival at the Crusaders' home, St Albans Rugby Club, on August Bank Holiday - both events will draw attention to the Crusaders' goal of spreading the word in the male dominated world of rugby and on from there.It looks like a much-needed awareness movement is being created - but Crusaders are desperate to attract sponsors for these two events and to enable Crusaders to accept the many invitations to play in countries like Dubai, Bahrain, Italy, Japan and the USA. Building teams in many different countries, playing at all levels of rugby, Crusaders hope to become the first global rugby club - but with a double mission.Canterbury Clothing in New Zealand - one of the largest suppliers of kit to the rugby industry - has agreed to a partnership to promote cancer awareness. I wonder - has a logo been chosen yet? Would a woman's advice on that one be in order?!If you would like to become involved with the club in some way - by inviting Crusaders RFC for a fixture against your own club; by becoming involved as a player; or by sponsoring or donating to Crusaders please contact Mark on mark@crusadersrugby.org or on Facebook (TheCrusadersRFC) or follow them on Twitter.www.crusadersrugby.org