This weekend will see hundreds of eccentrically decorated bras and their owners power-walking the London Marathon route. Training is ongoing for this year's Moonwalk, and Twitter abounds with messages of good luck to all the walkers - along with hopes for a rain-free night.Walk the Walk, the charity founded by Nina Barough 15 years ago, has raised over £75 million for breast cancer causes. The projects and campaigns chosen by Walk the Walk are very carefully selected, and tend to be those which would not easily find funding or those who, without Walk the Walk's donation, would take many years to achieve their goal.The Generation Study (tracking the health of 100,000 women over 40 years) by Breakthrough Breast Cancer is supported by the London Moonwalk, as is the Penny Brohn Cancer Care Centre (known as "The Bristol Approach") and the magnificent work done by The Havens (in London, Leeds and Hereford) which give such special support to people with breast cancer and their families, offering nine free complementary therapies - of all manner of types - counselling, breast cancer nurses, groups for young people with the disease, and courses like Mindfulness Stress Reduction Technique. Walk the Walk also helps fund emotional and physical support for those who have cancer now.One lady taking part this year - her eighth Moonwalk - is Rebecca. Her sister, Cara Bramall, told me just how many blows Rebecca has received in her life. In 1974, aged only 34, Cara and Rebecca's mother died from breast cancer. Four years later, aged 11, Rebecca was diagnosed with Ewing Sarcoma. This entailed surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, and, when the disease reoccurred four years later, she underwent yet more treatment - which threw her into an early menopause, with the realisation that there would be no children.I always enjoy hearing of people who have confounded the doctors and Rebecca is one of these. Remarkably, aged 27, she became pregnant and gave birth to a son and, two years later, a daughter.In 2001, five years after her daughter was born, Rebecca was diagnosed with breast cancer. She had chemotherapy first for 6 months - which meant travelling on a Monday to London from her home in Shrewsbury, undergoing the treatment and travelling back the same day in order to go to work the next day. Then came a mastectomy and reconstruction. Two years later, Rebecca decided - in order to reduce the risk of recurrence - to have a prophylactic mastectomy and reconstruction using an implant and muscle from her back.Surely, enough was enough - but no. The medication caused polyps in her uterus and in 2005 Rebecca chose to have a hysterectomy. Quite how she did it, I don't know, but she took up her team place for the 2005 Moonwalk just two months after the hysterectomy.Rebecca and Cara will be walking this weekend and I wish them every success. Rebecca has endured so much and overcome such adversity but is determined to keep raising money for breast cancer causes - and Cara is not only very proud of Rebecca but is inspired by her sister.Another amazing example of the determination of our fellow human beings to raise money for a particular cause is Gerard Varin. Born in Switzerland but now living in the small village of Duffield, just north of Derby, Gerard decided to run - yes RUN - from Duffield to his Swiss home in Seleute to raise money for Breast Cancer Campaign. Why? Well - both his parents died from cancer aged 59 and, over the last few years, eight ladies in Duffield have been diagnosed with breast cancer.The distance between Duffield and Seleute is 806 miles, which Gerard completed on 1 May after running for 31 days - a marathon a day. Gerard said "It was an adventure with fantastic camaraderie along the way".The amount of money raised by the walkers in their elaborate bras (£1,768,740 and rising) or lone travellers like Gerard Varin (£30,000 to date) is extremely impressive but, just as important, is the camaraderie experienced by everyone who undertakes such a commitment. Friends are made, stories are swapped and the surrounding support carries you to the finishing line.It is thus for people with cancer, who turn to the charities for support, advice and help. A friendly voice on the helpline, a suggestion which lessens the physical discomfort of cancer or a solution to a financial problem - as I have written so many times before - without charities, where would we be?www.walkthewalk.org 
www.breastcancercampaign.org
www.thehaven.org.uk 
www.breakthrough.org.uk 
www.pennybrohncancercare.organd Gerard Varin's website is http://anglo-suisse.net 