Through writing this blog I have found myself at events at which I am asked to speak, at which I discover the world of cancer research or - as happened last Tuesday - at a House of Commons briefing. Thanks to an invitation from Owen Sharp, CEO of The Prostate Cancer Charity, a whole new world opened up to me.Chaired by John Leech MP - who is a huge supporter of The Prostate Cancer Charity - the subject of this briefing was the drug Abiraterone.As I am sure you are well aware, NICE's draft decision to deny Abiraterone's use by the NHS has caused much distress to those men whose cancer is at an advanced stage (ie it has spread to other parts of the body) and has stopped responding to hormone and chemotherapy treatments.The argument put forward by NICE is that the pharmaceutical company is charging too much for a drug which will be used by too many men - and, therefore, should not be in the "end of life" category.Apart from a chemotherapy drug called Cabazitaxel (which does not offer such a long extension of life and comes with side effects), these men are left with no alternative but palliative care. Abiraterone has been proven to extend the lives of men with prostate cancer by (on average) four months, pain-free and with renewed levels of energy. It is not a chemotherapy treatment and is taken as a pill four times a day, along with the steroid prednisolone.The four men in the room - all with prostate cancer - who have been taking the drug (three who managed to obtain it by winning their appeals to the Strategic Health Authority and one who took part in a Royal Marsden trial) emphasised that the quality of their lives has been improved enormously - no pain, no fatigue. In fact, they felt their old selves once again and their PSA levels dropped almost overnight.Like all drugs, Abiraterone will stop working eventually - for the actor Ian Liston, it stopped being effective after three and a half years, but he, like the others, described how being physically stronger (thanks to Abiraterone) will enable them to cope with future therapies. "The difference it makes to the quality of your life cannot be underestimated."Dr Simon Chowdhury - Consultant Oncologist at Guy's, King's and St. Thomas' Hospitals in London - echoed the point I made in a previous blog post. He said that it is a "travesty that a drug developed in the UK is not now available to UK patients." I would reiterate my comment that Abiraterone was developed by Cancer Research UK, some of whose funding comes from the very people who now need the drug for which they have paid towards its development. This cannot be right and, if NICE's final decision is to refuse Abiraterone's use by the NHS, it may well disillusion people to such an extent that they will think twice about making any further donations to cancer research.We heard, too, from Hugh Gunn, a prostate cancer sufferer, who works to raise awareness of the disease and is the current Treasurer of the Prostate Cancer Support Federation. On being diagnosed in 2005 he was given 30 months to live, and was prescribed intermittent hormone therapy and finished chemotherapy in December last year when,"after feeling close to the end, I won my appeal to my Strategic Health Authority and have been able to enjoy a wonderful four months with my family. On Abiraterone, the pelvic pains, lack of appetite and loss of energy have all disappeared".However, Hugh pointed out that, when he approached his local Cancer Drugs Fund, he discovered the East Midlands CDF was the only one in the country not funding Abiraterone. Finally, the decision was overturned but, as he said, "it is very distressing to have to fight for something to save your life." Some CDFs meet on a regular basis - Dr Chowdhury can rely on his Fund to make a decision in 48 hours - but in other areas, men are dying before the CDF even begin the discussion.There was a distinct feeling among those gathered in Portcullis House that prostate cancer is the forgotten cancer and that there is sexual discrimination at work here. Particularly as, after a Freedom of Information request by The Prostate Cancer Charity, it was discovered that half of the CDFs insist on a choice being made between Abiraterone and Cabazitaxel. If Abiraterone does not work - and, like all drugs, it fails for some people - no further applications for the other drug are allowed. So you could be kippered either way. The consensus was that this rule would not be applied to drugs for breast cancer.GPs did not escape unscathed either. It was suggested that far too many are still under the misconception that a man will die with, not from, prostate cancer. It is estimated that there are 250,000 men living with the disease and, all too often, it is already at an advanced stage when the diagnosis takes place.NICE is due to make its final decision in June, and the Prostate Cancer Charity asks everyone to log onto their website and use the tool you will find there to alert your MP to fight on behalf of me: email NICE and the SMC in Scotland (which has already decided against recommending Abiraterone) and persuade them to change their minds; or have a go at Janssen's (Abiraterone's manufacturer) to lower its price.As Dr Chowdhury said: "This is the ideal cancer drug - it does not cure but it is highly active, administrated orally, has no toxicity, is easy to monitor, easy to produce and relatively cheap."