Not all of the kids I teach want to become actors, but they enjoy it and find the skills they learn help them later in life. One of my most talented girls, for example, wanted to be a doctor. She had applied to Imperial and was offered an interview. After the interview, she came to acting class. She looked despondent."How did it go?" I asked her."I've got no hope of getting in. The panel didn't ask a single question about my science A-levels or why I want to be a doctor.""What did they ask you?" I said."All they were interested in were the characters I had played in my acting exams. They asked me about how I had created the characters."I smiled. "They didn't need to discuss your grades - they are first class - but, they did want to hear about how you deal with different characters. From your answers, they will be reassured that you can deal with all kinds of people. As a doctor, you will have to deal with people from different backgrounds everyday."Sure enough, Imperial accepted her and she is now a fine doctor.I was reminded of this story when I met Becky Simpson from a company called Playout. Becky and her partner David Schaal (a familiar TV and film face) use their acting skills to teach empathy to health professionals.Becky told me that all NHS staff must have conflict resolution training every three years. Playout provides some of this through teaching drama, using techniques such role play, story telling and character development. This helps staff deal with rudeness, aggression and anxiety.Becky said this is required because medical students have great compassion when they start training, but lose it en route. These students need to be reminded why they chose their career.Indeed, nursing degrees are trying to do just this by introducing a module called "Compassion". This sounds great, but I do wonder how it is going to work. How do you test it? Are you allowed to do re-takes? And what happens if you fail?Please email me - judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk - with your experiences of NHS training courses. I'd love to know what you thought of them.