Macmillan Cancer Support campaigns tirelessly for change. Whether it is one of their online petitions - from "Give Hospital Car Parking the Boot"; "Freeze Out Fuel Poverty", "Support 24/7 Community Nursing", to its latest campaign "Put the Fair into Welfare" - or its network of Cancer Voices, advice lines, financial support and information from CancerBackup (which merged with Macmillan in 2008) the charity puts the patient firmly at the centre of its work.Whilst researching for a previous blog post, I found that Macmillan is also involved with NHS Improvement and the Department of Health to try and find ways to improve the services for people being treated for cancer.Hang on a minute - NHS Improvement? What? It is not a part of the NHS of which I was aware - were you?
So - what is it and what does it do?Iain Fletcher, head of PR at NHS Improvement, explained that the organisation works with clinicians, oncologists and those in front line care in the four areas of cancer - heart, lung and stroke - to improve the services offered in these areas by the NHS.This would explain the terminology used on the website - "stratified pathways" and "journeys" are popular with the medical research and academic world - but, that aside, this small team, based in Leicester, has produced award-winning work in its field.Strange, then, that we hear so little about it. Working with health organisations from hospitals and GP practices to local cancer networks and clinical commissioning services the objective is to "pilot and prototype innovative methods with NHS sites across England and use the learning to help further develop best practice models and then roll out the proven services for patients nationwide."Aftercare for young people recovering from cancer and a new practice for people who need breast cancer surgery are two examples on which NHS Improvement, with its better-known (to me, anyway) partner - the National Cancer Survivor Initiative - plus Macmillan, have been working.Identifying the extra stress caused to breast cancer patients by having to spend time in hospital before and after surgery, a way to change the management of these patients was developed. The new treatment - which has been rolled out across the country - allows the patient to have surgery and be home by the end of the day. One lady who experienced the day care treatment on a Tuesday said:I am not sure that everyone undergoing breast cancer surgery can be guaranteed such a swift recovery and memory wipe, but it must be good for patients to spend the least amount of time possible in a hospital ward. This is a definite improvement for the patient and the waiting list.Macmillan continues to work with NHS Improvement and NCSI. A current project involves vocational rehabilitation for people who have had cancer - a part of NCSI's drive for self-management after cancer. This covers everything from modifications which might be needed in the work environment to strategies for coping with and managing cancer-induced fatigue, mobility and cognitive problems.This kind of academic research seems a world away from the "World's Biggest Coffee Morning" and its 3,000 wonderful end-of-life nurses, but Macmillan's voice campaigns for cancer patients in whatever environment it finds itself.I wonder - how many other lesser known parts are there in the NHS?