Rays of Sunshine is a "wish-giving" charity that contacted me following the blog post I wrote about three other charities that do similar work. Alongside the granting of wishes, this charity has sponsored its own "Sunshine" ward for children at King's College Hospital, London, where each bed has a TV and games console; special teenager and sensory rooms form part of their ongoing work. Last week I took up their invitation to view an art exhibit at Christie's in South Kensington, London, sponsored by the charity.The exhibition was of paintings done by Daniel Barnett from Rotherham in Yorkshire - a talented and creative young man with the promise of a great artistic future. He won a place at Goldsmiths University but, sadly, was never able to begin the course because he died, aged 19, from a bone and soft tissue cancer, called Ewing's Sarcoma.His one wish was to "walk into Christie's and see my work on display". Two months before he died, he achieved his wish. A year on - and determined to do something in Daniel's memory - his parents, Diane and John, turned again to Rays of Sunshine and, with the co-operation and support of Christie's, another exhibition was mounted. All the profits from the pictures, which his parents say were inspired by his illness, have been donated to Rays of Sunshine. Added to this, his parents have launched a website about Daniel - from which it is possible to buy a print in a frame or on canvas from a selection of his work; all proceeds will be given to the various charities which helped Daniel and his family during the five years of his illness. Please visit www.danielbarnett.org.uk.As I left Christie's, I began to think about the many charities of which I have read and heard, set up in memory of a child whose life was cut short, some of whom never even reached the toddler stage. The courage of these children is remarkable - and parents often talk about how humbling it is to watch the bravery of their small child when undergoing painful treatment and facing the uncertainty of the future. The caring role is reversed as the children seek to reassure the parents. Later, grieving families strive to ensure that the memory of their child lives on - some choose to launch a charity of their own to raise funds, so that other children will be able to benefit from research into rare paediatric cancers; to travel abroad for treatments like immunotherapy, which is not available yet in the UK; or for their families to be able to access emotional, physical and financial support. The dedication of these small charities, with their loyal donors running marathons, car boot sales or quiz nights - is very inspiring.However, I wondered - how well funded is research into paediatric cancers in the UK? I rang Sparks - the children's medical research charity dedicated to championing pioneering research into any condition affecting mums-to-be, babies and children, whose Chairman is the rugby player Jason Leonard and whose patrons and supporters include celebrities from the sporting and entertainment industries - and they gave me the answer: "It is desperately underfunded." I was not surprised.Neuroblastoma (a cancer of abnormally developing nerve cells in very young children) and medulloblastoma (a brain tumour found mostly in children) are among a whole spectrum of paediatric conditions on which Sparks is supporting work. A three-year research project (one of three) by UCL's Institute of Child Health in London - costing £161,536 - has found that green tea catechins and red pepper capsaicin combined are highly toxic to neuroblastoma cells. Perhaps one day chemotherapy will be a thing of the past. The Northern Institute of Cancer Research in Newcastle is working on the causes of recurrence of medulloblastoma. £222,379 will fund this three-year project.Suzi Browne from Sparks said: "We are enormously grateful for the support of families who have sadly lost a child to illness or who have seen their children come through treatment and want to help others in the same situation. There is so much more vital work that we could fund if only we had the money to do so and it would be wonderful to hear from anyone who wants to help us with our mission."For more information please log onto www.sparks.org.uk.