"Good friends and beautiful buildings; hot tea and live music; tired legs and hope," is how Maggie's Cancer Caring Centres describes its annual London Night Hike. This year it is on 16 September from 7.30pm and, apart from Maggie's London (in the grounds of the Charing Cross Hospital), buildings open will include Leadenhall Market, City Hall, The Southbank Centre, The Royal Geographical Society, The Royal Institute of British Architects, Horse Guards and 20 Gresham Street - with more to be announced. There are two routes - 10 and 20 miles - and if you feel you need company, friends or family can walk with you for the first 10 miles. Along the way there will be entertainment from gospel choirs and artists, food at each location and even massage moments.Maggie's now have 15 centres built or in development. Edinburgh was the first, to be followed by Glasgow, Dundee, Highlands, Glasgow Gartnavel,Fife, London, Cheltenham, Nottingham, South West Wales, Oxford, Lanarkshire, Aberdeen, the North East and Hong Kong. All have been designed by leading architects - the London centre was created by Richard Rogers.The centres offer medical and pastoral help of all kinds from cancer support specialists. They reassure and comfort those who have just made the shock discovery that cancer has been found; they use their training and expertise to explain carefully what the consultant does not always have the time to communicate - it is always difficult to take in the details when bad news is given; their benefits specialists work with the patients to ensure that no one loses out financially.The kitchen table is the focus of the centre, where pyjama-clad patients from the hospital mix with outpatients, drinking tea, eating biscuits and all finding comfort and mutual or staff-led support - physically, psychologically, on a one-to-one basis or in groups.Registration is open now - £30 per person or £23 per person for a team of four. Last year they raised £700,000 from their various hikes. Their great supporter is the actor, Benedict Cumberbatch, who encourages everyone to "fund the extraordinary work done by Maggie's". He says "The centres are a sanctuary, a place of calm, reflection and help for people who are suffering from cancer". For more information log onto www.maggiescentres.org and for the London Night Hike add /londonnighthike.The Pink Buddies  (www.pinkbuddies.co.uk) was formed 2 years ago by Tracy Philip - a breast care nurse from the London Bridge Hospital - and a group of female patients who had been treated at the hospital. Now they have the help of two more breast care nurses, Barbara Binder and Vanessa Parsons, and their intention is to inspire and inform everyone who is affected by breast cancer. They say "We are here to show that the disease can be beaten, that beauty comes in many shapes and sizes and that "normal" is whatever you want it to be."On 30th September at 12.00 pm, The Pink Buddies' Autumn Lunch is to be held at The Oxo Tower Brasserie in London. Actually, it is more than a lunch - also included is an auction, a raffle and entertainment. Tickets are £39.50 for the three course lunch, of which £10 will go to The Breast Cancer Haven - as will a percentage of the money raised from exclusive cocktails mixed for the day.I am told that tickets are selling fast and can be found from the Harvey Nichols website or oxo.reservations@harveynichols.com or the Oxo Tower on 020 7803 3888.As we head towards October and Breast Cancer Awareness Month, I am gathering together products whose sale is supporting cancer charities. If you know of any unusual ones to add to the list, please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk