For children in hospitals and hospices the pantomime season is about to begin."Aladdin" is written and produced by The Panto Company with a full cast of professional actors. The tour is sponsored by Starlight - a charity which works to fulfil the wishes of terminally ill children and provides distraction and entertainment to fill the weeks and months these children have to spend in hospitals or hospices. The pantomime opens its 7 week tour at Colchester General Hospital on 1st August and, later in the year, another tour of "Aladdin" will cover the more traditional Christmas period.With my theatre hat on, I am delighted to hear that work is being created for actors, for whom there have never been enough jobs and pantomime is a fantastically magical experience for the actor and the audience. Wearing my health blogger's headgear, I am interested in anything which eases the lives of sick children and, therefore, the work of the staff who care for them and who have the unenviable task of carrying out the uncomfortable, but necessary, medical tests.There are three main charities in the UK which offer to meet children's many and varied "wishes". Baking a cake for The Queen; sharing a holiday with the family; swimming with dolphins; having a star named after you; owning a mobile phone to keep in touch with friends; meeting a favourite sporting, acting or music celebrity - the list is endless.The Make-A-Wish Foundation, Starlight and Dreams Come True were all founded around 25 years ago and all seem - on the face of it - much the same. As I sometimes wonder about the myriad of cancer charities, I pondered why they don't merge? I know that all charities tend to become territorial and, when questioned, these three insisted they offer different possibilities for the children. To quote Neil Jones - CEO of Make-A-Wish - "There are significant cultural, behavioural and operational differences between the different wish-granting organisations". What did that mean? Talking to representatives of the three charities, the difference between them became apparent - but their goal is the same.The Make-A-Wish Foundation is very clear about its remit - "Since 1986 we have had a single purpose; to grant magical wishes to children and young people fighting life-threatening illnesses". In June of this year - to mark its 25th anniversary - the charity spent ten days conducting the world's biggest "pass the parcel", visiting 25 locations in the UK and granting 25 wishes. The last recipient - at The Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London - was Lois Ladkin-Brown, aged 4, and suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, whose wish was to become a princess for a day. The drive is now on to raise £5.5 million to achieve the charity's aim of granting 1000 wishes each year.Dreams Come True - whose ambassadors and patrons include Princess Michael of Kent and the actor Christopher Timothy - published Alice Pyne's "bucket list" from her blog of "things I want to do before I die". Alice is a teenager fighting Hodgkin's lymphoma (cancer of the white blood cells). Following "the bucket list" going viral, everything from entering her dog, Mabel, into a regional labrador show to meeting Take That became a reality for Alice. Quite an achievement. On its website the charity says that its mission is to "bring joy to terminally and seriously ill children". Witnessing the difference it makes to the life of a sick child, excited and waiting for his or her dream to come true, DCTC is in the early stages of launching a research project called "The Power of Dreams". This will be partially funded by DEMOS and led by DEMOS' deputy director, Julia Margo, with doctors and palliative care specialists and will look at the benefits to sick children of having positive goals.Founded by the actress Emma Samms and her film director cousin, Peter Samuelson, Starlight also grants wishes but this charity now encompasses - not only pantomimes - but distraction therapy of all kinds. 5000 distraction boxes are in place - which include 40 different toys - to distract and entertain children while medical procedures are undertaken. Starlight has also invested £3.45 million in 1,150 Starlight Fun Centres for children's hospitals and hospices - full of Nintendo Dsi's, DVD-blueray players, flat screen TVs and internet access. Apart from the pantomimes, the charity also provides funds for medical staff to lay on children's parties, complete with the usual entertainments. Starlight has taken the next step and, with Imperial College Healthcare Trust, are undertaking a study of the positive role that distraction therapy plays in the nursing of sick children.In the UK there are 20,000 children fighting life-threatening illnesses.  Fulfilling "wishes" and providing entertainment is a wonderful service. For parents, grandparents and siblings, to see a brave child experience his or her greatest wish must be a moment of unimaginable emotion.These charities, with their different programmes, work to offer ways of empowering the children - and their families - to cope with the emotional toll of serious illness. Their work should not be dismissed lightly.If you would like to nominate a child for a wish, or donate to one of these charities, please log on to:
www.make-a-wish.org.uk
www.dctc.org.uk
www.starlight.org.uk