The Chief Executive of Scarborough Hospital has, at last, responded to the formal complaint I made - in January - on behalf of my mother-in-law, who has severe dementia.The four-page letter is full of apologies: from the Sister in charge of the ward (who we never met), the Hotel Services Manager (hotel?!) and the Divisional Manager for Clinical Support Services. However - and needless to say - the letter does not answer satisfactorily the key points I raised. There are too many "unfortunatelys". It is not documented what time fluids were started; why there was only one bedrail available; which actual bed my mother-in-law was given and why the doctor never turned up to meet us. Apparently, no one passed on our request for a meeting.There are several patronising answers to questions - one about the ability (or inability) of the student nurse (with Hull University on her uniform) to take down the patient's details. Of course we all realise that student nurses have to start somewhere but how much confidence would you have in a nurse who seemed unable to understand that her patient has dementia and, at that moment, was comatose?The Chief Executive admits that there was a breakdown in communication throughout my mother-in-law's stay in hospital,"which I think we can learn from". Too right! Let us hope new policies and procedures are being put into place - not least that the patient must be treated with courtesy, care and respect at all times, no matter the age of the person nor the type of illness - but I am not holding my breath.I just do not believe it is so difficult to run a small hospital with courtesy, care and correct procedures - if the staff is persuaded to "buy in" to the ethos of professionalism, pride in their work and respect for the patients, which has to come from the top of the Trust.Talking of a breakdown in communication - whilst waiting for a reply from Scarborough Hospital I emailed Robert Goodwill, MP for Scarborough and Whitby. Having heard from other people who have made formal complaints to the same hospital, I thought perhaps Mr Goodwill might be able to help us all to elicit answers and/or explanations. Apart from a computer-generated response, I have heard not one word from Mr Goodwill.If it is not possible to achieve a reply from an elected representative - someone who is meant to represent his constituents' interests and problems - it is no wonder it took four months for a response from the unelected bureaucrats. It seems that people have given up any ambition or attempt to make public services respond to their customers - the taxpayers.Perhaps Mr Goodwill agrees with the Spectator piece by Theodore Dalrymple about Scarborough and its people  and has given up. I suggest he might like to emulate Ms Angie Bray MP, who responded immediately (with a letter) to an email I sent on behalf of Macmillan Cancer Support, questioning what would happen to benefits for cancer patients under the proposed welfare reforms.I have read numerous emails from people who have had far worse experiences than my mother-in-law and who are fighting for justice and reform in the NHS. Until now I took their determination and constant attention to the cause for granted.  Now I marvel at their ability to overcome the sheer frustration of trying to obtain answers from the NHS - and some politicians.