None of us knows how we would react if faced with a medical condition that is not treatable at all or offers little hope of recovery. From a state of good health, it is easy to dismiss the possibility of joining a clinical trial, but what if it was your last hope? The subject provokes strong opinions.Using the same bench to beside technique as I found at Breakthrough Breast Cancer's research laboratories in London, the last year has seen Cancer Research UK's Leeds' centre running 250 clinical trials with the help of 2,250 volunteers.
The Yorkshire Post carried a story about one lady, Teri Wadsworth, who found that being involved in the trial of a new chemotherapy drug called Eribulin (Halaven) - derived from a sea-sponge - used in conjunction with other medication, has kept her cancer on hold. Teri's breast cancer was diagnosed in 2009. What she had thought was an itch caused by an allergy to washing powder proved to be breast cancer. Chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy did not destroy the cancer and it spread to her skin. Further treatment followed but had to be halted because of side-effects.Then she was offered the chance to join a clinical trial of Eribulin. Her symptoms abated but when the dosage had to be reduced because of side-effects, the cancer returned on her back. She knows that the cancer will never disappear completely but the treatment has given her a reprieve. She says "If anyone is unsure about clinical trials they should consider them - certainly from my point of view it's been a lifeline".Erubilin - which is only suitable for patients whose cancer has spread and who have undergone at least two previous chemotherapy treatments - works by preventing the cancer cells from dividing and causes them to self-destruct, thus extending the lives of patients.Professor Chris Twelves from the University of Leeds said: "The global phase III study establishes a potential new standard treatment for women with heavily pre-treated metastatic breast cancer. Previously there was no treatment with proven survival rates." Now the team is looking at the possibility of combining Eribulin with other chemotherapy drugs for patients with early stages of breast cancer.For patients with triple negative breast cancer - which is not treatable with hormone-lowering drugs like Tamoxifen or Arimidex (because the condition tests negative to both oestrogen and progesterone receptors and so will not respond to hormone therapies) - there was news, last week, of a trial which is about to begin in the USA. The Dana-Farber Institute, which is attached to the Harvard Medical School in Boston, has announced research into a new drug to stop, or at least slow down the development of this aggressive form of breast cancer.As we all know, drug trials are not always successful and, in some cases, may introduce or cause other serious but unexpected conditions. The decision to join a clinical trial - or not - may well be conditioned by our experiences of friends or family. For more information, visit www.centerwatch.com  The website publishes every clinical drug trial throughout the world, where it is happening and which medical condition is targets and www.CISCRP.org gives all the information you might need if you are considering taking part in a clinical trial.