Lots of questions at our editorial staff meeting this morning off the second Ebola case, confirmed yesterday: Given Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital's track record with the first patient, now deceased, should a second patient be treated there or by another Dallas hospital, for instance, one with more expertise? Should the patient be flown to one of the four biocontainment patient care units in the U.S.? Did the health-care worker diagnosed yesterday with Ebola contract it while in scrubs, mask and gloves or in full haz-mat gear?I've been looking for answers since then and here's what I've learned so far, based on two interviews with experts and a lot of reading:1. Given the anxiety, fear and concern that's only normal to feel right now, especially here in Dallas, it's also natural that our first response is WE MUST DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT OR DRAMATIC to stop this. It gets increasingly tough, especially as we move into week three of Ebola headlines, to continue to keep things in perspective.But it's imperative we do so. Ground Zero for Ebola is West Africa, not Dallas. And while it's difficult to focus our attention on some place so far away and abstract when we have the disease in our own city, that's where the most critical work needs to be done.Given the enormity of the crisis in West Africa, more cases will emerge in the U.S. That's why it's so important that medical experts keep their attention on stopping Ebola there.2. Since it's a given that more Ebola cases will crop up in America and Europe, all facilities have to learn how to handle the disease. When someone infected with Ebola seeks help, he or she is not going to head straight to one of the four biocontainment centers but rather to the nearest storefront Urgent Care or hospital ER. That's why it's critical all medical facilities learn and implement best practices, rather than trying to cordon off cases into some super-select facilities. We can't make this go away by simply sending folks to Atlanta or Nebraska. There's a finite amount of space in those facilities.3. That's why it's imperative that Presbyterian step forward and reveal ALL the missing pieces — not so we can assess blame (that can come later) but so that other facilities can learn what to do when — not if — the next case walks into their care center. What is most needed now is transparency.Here are experts' details of what that transparency needs to include:- What actually happened Thursday, Sept. 25 between the time Thomas Duncan arrived at the Presby ER and the time he left? We've heard multiple explanations. We need to know the truth. That's the moment every other hospital is trying to gear up for — and that info from Presbyterian could help mistakes not be made again. The moment when a person infected with Ebola steps into a facility is the one we need to get right. Presbyterian can help other hospitals do that if it will release more information.- Under exactly what conditions was Duncan's case handled once he returned to the hospital? DMN staffer and UTD professor Dr. Seema Yasmin, a former epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, notes that the most mundane of details — did the hospital have an infection control manager (and what did that person do) and how specific was the log of sign-in/sign-out/duties performed — could be important for other hospitals' planning.Bottom line:  Presbyterian Hospital has had some immensely inept PR efforts since Thomas Duncan's story first came to light.  But far more important, the medical community needs to learn whether they took all the prudent measures. What might other hospitals do differently for different results?4. Much has been made about protective gear. It's worth us all remembering the Centers for Disease Control does not call for "space suit-type" protection. Here are its  recommendations. In brief: gloves, fluid-resistant or fluid-impermeable gown, goggles or face shield and facemask. In situations involving "copious amounts of fluids," double gloving, disposable shoe covers and leg coverings. So while it may make us itchy that the Presby staff was not in "haz-mat" gear for two days after Duncan was admitted, it's not some egregious breach of protocol.What's still murky — and why those details at Presbyterian could be so helpful — is how the various protocols are working. Clinicians continue to ask many questions about whether the protective gear and procedures being recommended were actually sufficient. According to a transcript of an Aug. 5 call between clinicians nationwide and CDC, the bottom line from CDC was: We are sure we are right on our recommended protections. But if you aren't satisfied and want to do more than we recommend, that's up to you.The more I read (and don't even get me started on the intricacies of water droplets and negative airflow in patient rooms), the more it seems we are learning as we go here. That's what makes it so disconcerting. We must do the best we can with what we currently know. Which brings us back to message No. 1:  Presbyterian Hospital must be completely transparent so that "best practices" can be established and revised as needed.I'll close with a big-picture point, one that speaks to the heart of the Ebola crisis. Among the reading I've done is this Five Myths of Ebola, from Friday's Washington Post. While what I write for the Wednesday page will reflect the board's point of view, this paragraph sums up my thinking about the crisis as a whole:Hubris is the greatest danger in wealthy countries — a sort of smug assumption that advanced technologies and emergency-preparedness plans guarantee that Ebola and other germs will not spread. It was hubris that left Toronto's top hospitals battling SARS in 2003, long after the virus was conquered in poorer Vietnam. It was hubris that led the World Health Assembly in 2013 to cut the WHO's outbreak-response budget in favor of more programs to treat cancer and heart disease. And it is hubris that causes politicians to routinely slash public health budgets every time the microbes seem under control, only to cry out in desperation when a new epidemic appears.