I apologise for the delay in highlighting CoppaFeel's event on Sunday, but it has taken five days for BT to send an engineer to sort out our broadband - and discover that there was a fault on the "card" at the local exchange. According to the engineer, this is the most common reason for broadband to drop - so why does no one think to check this on the day it is reported? If someone could have been bothered to do this, we could have been back on-line in a matter of hours. As I recall, part of the argument for privatising BT was to make the organisation much more responsive to its customers, rather than a remote monolith.  You could have fooled me!However, an organisation which does take its job very seriously is the charity, CoppaFeel. Its founder, Kristin Hallenga, was twice misdiagnosed and now lives with secondary breast cancer.  She was 23 when she first became suspicious of a breast lump but her doctor declared it to be "hormonal" - and repeated the diagnosis six months later on her next visit.It seems that GPs are reluctant to refer young women or men - until it is too late. Why?  Isn't it better to refer a patient with a lump - no matter what is the age of the person? Surely it is better to be safe than sorry?Kristin wants to highlight the importance of young women - and men - checking their "boobs" regularly, "knowing what their boobs look and feel like normally, being aware of the symptoms of breast cancer, and being confident enough to insist on a referral if they detect an abnormality."CoppaFeel has enlisted the help of Fearne Cotton, who is one of the BBC's presenters of the royal wedding. With Fearne will be Dermot O'Leary and they - as CoppaFeel's celebrity patrons - will be at the Water Rats, Kings Cross on Sunday (May 1) for a "Festifeel" - along with a line-up to please the young. Headlining the music festival will be Noah and the Whale, with Alex Clare, D.J. Norman Jay and Cloud Control. Also performing will be Cocknabullkid, Diagram of the Heart, Daley, The Milk, Summer Camp, Dub Smugglers DJs, and Stop Look Listen.For tickets visit www.wegottickets.com/event/113478CoppaFeel will be taking their message to music festivals across the UK this summer. "We aim to stamp out late detection and misdiagnosis".For Kristin, if a diagnosis had been made eight months earlier, it could have been a different story.www.coppafeel.org