New treatments for breast cancer - in fact, all cancers - are being trialled every day.  One such technique - for early-onset breast cancer, which needs only a lumpectomy followed by radiotherapy - is called Targeted Intraoperative Radiotherapy. This is a single dose of radiation, given directly into the open wound, once the tumour has been removed and whil the patient is still under the anaesthetic. The machine targets its electrons at a piece of gold centred in the middle of a device in the shape of a ball, which is temporarily sutured into the wound. Once the electrons hit the gold, radiation is emitted which affects only the local area - unlike standard radiotherapy, where the radiation is fired through the body, thereby covering a large area and possibly affecting other organs.The procedure - known as Targit - adds 25-35 minutes to the surgery time but prevents the patient from spending 4-6 weeks attending the radiotherapy clinic.It sounds wonderful and a major breakthrough in cancer treatment. Not only will there be benefit to the patients - whose recovery will be faster - but, once the procedure is available more widely, the NHS will benefit too, because the cost of Targit will be less than half the amount of a 6 week course of radiotherapy.However, new treatments - often personally and individually tailored to each patient - are causing the insurance industry somewhat of a headache. Buying travel insurance on-line is the easiest and quickest way but, very often, the system refuses to accept new or unconventional treatments - or reactions and side-effects of new treatments - and patients find themselves unable to tick those pesky little boxes, are refused cover or have to pay an incredibly high premium.Insurancewith - led by Fiona Macrae - has begun a trial of a different kind. This insurance company has a team of medically trained agents who are dedicated to providing affordable travel insurance for people with existing medical conditions.The current trial involves a travel insurance policy for breast cancer patients only - but, if it proves successful, will embrace all medical conditions.A "person-led screening system" has been introduced and will be offered to those people who have been declined cover under normal on-line screening. People in this situation can talk to members of The Insurancewith team, who will, then, be in a better position to evaluate the risk by assessing the patient's current and actual state of health. This way, the true risk of the cancer can be rated and the premiums kept low - and, by learning of new procedures, Insurancewith can constantly update its on-line medical screening system.Just because you fall outside the boxes, does not mean, necessarily, that you are a higher insurance risk.
One lady - with secondary breast cancer, was refused cover by all but one insurance company. The quote was over £1500 for a week's holiday in Europe. After talking to a member of Insurancewith's team, who understood the exact nature of the cancer, the quote was reduced by £1,000.I might add that it is always possible to speak to a person at Insurancewith - not just for this particular breast cancer travel policy.  If you are uneasy about conducting your application on line, give them a call. I am always happier speaking to a person about such private matters - but it is  rare nowadays to have that privilege.Insurancewith is donating £1 from each breast cancer insurance policy to The Breast Cancer Haven.www.insurancewith.com
www.thehaven.org