With a surfeit of pink everywhere during October, Breast Cancer Awareness Month is associated with the most common form of cancer for females.However, breast cancer is not an exclusively female disease. Men develop it too, but in much smaller numbers. Compared to women - over 45,000 diagnosed annually - the number of men is around 350. To please my readers who, quite rightly, say that it must be described as "breast cancer in men" and not "male breast cancer" - after all, you don't describe kidney cancer as male or female - I will make sure this is what I write.It seems that the incidence of breast cancer in men is increasing in western countries. There is no confirmed reason for this, but suspicion falls on a higher intake of alcohol, obesity and a lack of exercise. These three culprits are held up as reasons for the huge surge in many other forms of cancer.When I met Dr. Val Speirs, Reader in Cellular Pathology at Leeds University's Institute of Molecular Medicine's Breast Research Group at The Breast Cancer Campaign's Tissue Bank, I discovered that one of her interests is breast cancer in men. Recently, she was kind enough to answer several of my questions about the disease and pointed me in the direction of an article she had written for the magazine Nature.We hear a lot about faulty BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, but I wondered exactly what is their unmutated role? Dr. Speirs explained that these genes are tumour suppressors, whose role is to prevent cancers developing. They are seen to be "specific to preventing breast and ovarian cancers, but when these genes mutate, they no longer act as tumour suppressors. Breast cancer in men is common in families who carry a BRCA2 mutation, and some male breast cancers have this mutation. There is the potential to pass this gene on in exactly the same way as women". So - it is possible for men to carry the breast cancer gene and pass it to their daughter or their son.Another couple of words which seem linked to breast cancer in men are Klinefelter's Syndrome. Dr. Speirs clarified this for me - "This is a condition in which a human has an extra X chromosome. It can occur in both genders and there is a suggestion only that those men with the condition have a 20-50 per cent greater chance of developing breast cancer - but, as yet, there is no conclusive evidence."Men with breast cancer, who feel abandoned by the researchers, will be very pleased to hear that Dr. Speirs's team established the Male Breast Cancer Consortium (sorry - I didn't name it!), which is a collaboration with pathologists in Europe and North America to gather samples from hundreds of men with breast cancer. In 2008, the International Male Breast Cancer Programme (sorry again!) was launched, in order to pool samples and epidemiological data and clinical information.From all this work has come the indication that breast cancer in men has two subgroups, both of which differ from the female subgroups, of which there are 10. Dr. Speirs says: "By characterising these subgroups - identifying the differences in tumour biology and treatment outcomes - targeted treatments for breast cancer in men can be developed. There has been a huge impact on women's lives as targeted treatment has been used for the female sex.At present, treatment for men with breast cancer is virtually the same as for women with the disease, but Dr. Speirs is certain that, as subtle differences become clear, it will be possible to plan clinical trials exclusively for men. That would, indeed, be a great step forward.Whilst all this work is going on in Leeds, the Genome-Wide Association Study - led by Dr. Nick Orr at Breakthrough Breast Cancer's Research Centre at The Institute of Cancer Research - has made a crucial discovery about another gene. Changes in the RAD51B gene (which is involved in repairing damaged DNA) can raise by 50 per cent a man's risk of developing breast cancer. The study looked at 823 men with breast cancer and investigated a staggering 447,000 genetic changes. The results were then confirmed in a further 438 patients.Dr. Orr said: "This study represents a leap forward in our understanding of male breast cancer. It shows that while there are similarities with female breast cancer, the causes of the disease can work differently in men. This raises the possibility of different ways to treat the disease specifically for men."Professor Anthony Swerdlow - co-leader of this Study of Breast Cancer in Men and Professor of Epidemiology at the Institute of Cancer Research said "Male breast cancer is rare, which makes it difficult to study. We will be continuing this research to try to find more genes that raise the risk for men, in order to understand better the causes of this disease in men - and women."For men who find themselves diagnosed with, what they have always believed, is a woman's disease, it must be a huge shock. This is not helped by having to attend breast cancer clinics where the majority - by far - are women. Christopher Jackson, a supporter of Breast Cancer Care, describes how he never met another man during the whole time of his treatment. Worse than that, he was frequently referred to as "Mrs Jackson" when called by the Clinic Doctor. Personally, I think that Doctor could do with a swift course in patient care.I agree with Dr. Speirs, who suggests that men-only clinics should be introduced and that the information about the side effects of treatment needs to be rewritten for the needs of male patients. It is bad enough having the disease without being treated as a second-class patient.If you are a man and are concerned about a possible breast cancer diagnosis, feel you might need to see a GP but are not sure, or just want to learn more, Breast Cancer Care publishes an information package designed especially for you. It comes in an unbranded, neutral-coloured folder and answers every conceivable question you might have. All too often the diagnosis is at a much later stage than in women, which makes for lower survival rates.The symptoms to look for - and please, gentleman, you need to examine yourselves in exactly the same way and every month as women should do too - are a painless lump, usually near the nipple, but a lump anywhere should be investigated by your GP; a tender or inverted nipple; an ulcerated or swollen breast; and sometimes the lymph nodes under your arm swell.I hope I have gone some way towards reassuring men that they are not forgotten in all the October pink and every breast cancer support charity is there for you. Ring or email your questions; join one of their special groups for men; or just join in with the women. Try Breast Cancer Care or The Haven.