Many people who have developed cancer find they need to embrace an holistic approach in coping with the disease. Meditation is often suggested as a form of relaxation, targeting the mind and the body. Today I discovered a very unusual method of achieving a meditative state - dancing the Argentinian Tango.The advocate of this particular method is Sara El-Hassani, 53, who lives in Leeds. Sara was diagnosed with primary breast cancer in May 1999 and ten years later, to the month, her consultant broke the news to her that the cancer had spread to her bones. Having led a busy professional life in the world of education - she had worked as a Head Teacher, an Ofsted inspector and, at the time of diagnosis, was working in leadership training - Sara took early retirement and tried to adjust to the diagnosis and the treatment which followed.She accepted the treatment plan devised by her oncologist, which includes a daily tablet of the aromatase inhibitor, Letrosol - having taken tamoxifen for five years, another anti-oestrogen drug was needed, with its adherent side-effects -  and six-weekly intravenous doses of Pamidromate. In order to receive this drug - which is needed to protect the calcium and strengthen the bones - Sara needed to be post-menopausal, which was achieved by blasting her ovaries. Once the pamidromate treatment started, there were its side-effects with which to contend. Sara described to me the incredibly painful bouts of tumour flare. "The pain was so bad I couldn't get from the bed to the bathroom. I was scared but it lasted a little while then went away."Happily, her regular tumour marker checks show that the development of the tumours is consistently low but Sara says that "nothing prepares you for the shock of the diagnosis or for living with secondary breast cancer". She feels strongly that the spotlight is shining only on primary breast cancer and far too little is written, or known, about the impact and implications of a secondary diagnosis. Despite the fact that 30 per cent of people will develop secondary breast cancer, the aim of most of the publicity is on "beating it and returning to normal". For those women or men who fall into the 30 per cent, life will not "return to normal".However, Sara is also insistent that we remember that two per cent of people with secondary breast cancer "don't go and die within two years". This year Breast Cancer Care launched its "Secondary Breast Cancer Day".  I asked Sara if she had heard about this - she said she was aware of it but felt that there was not enough press coverage of the day but "at least it is a start". I wonder if the reason for this is that it is an uncomfortable subject - the step past primary cancer?Sara is a remarkable lady. Having found herself in an "unspeakable, twilight world", in which she sat in the hospital," in terrible pain, feeling completely out of control and that I simply could not go on", now she wakes every morning "with a sense of purpose, gratitude and joy". She says that she is, of course, fully aware of the trajectory her life is taking and, as she put it "can see the bus coming" but she wants to help others in her situation. She says that one of the problems for cancer patients receiving intravenous treatment or chemotherapy is that "nobody sits you down and tells you what you can do to help yourself". From her experience, Sara has three suggestions to make, all of which she discovered by herself and none of which were suggested by the medical staff.1. "My veins kept collapsing and disappearing. Then I found that if the nurse used a strong stretchy old-fashioned tourniquet it made a massive difference to finding the veins. Most hospitals say that they are a hygiene risk so, instead, use totally ineffective silicone ones (which are as strong as paper)." Sara orders hers from the internet for a few pounds each and, having argued successfully with the medical staff, now has clearance to use them and they make a huge difference.2. "Drink lots and lots of water before treatment because that brings the veins up and out."3. "Press very hard on the cottonwool pad for 30 seconds when the needle is taken out of the vein. This will ensure the vein bounces back."Sara finds great support from the Secondary Breast Cancer Group, which meets in the Robert Ogden Macmillan Centre in Leeds - but which is considering moving to the Breast Cancer Haven in Leeds, where Sara take "visualisation" classes. She finds "great joy in cooking and eating for health", she follows the Plant Programme - black pepper, turmeric, onion, garlic and ginger being high on her list of cancer-fighting ingredients.As for the Argentinian Tango and meditation - well, it seems that, once you reach a level of proficiency you can forget about your feet, the music takes over and you begin dancing "in the zone". It sounds fantastic therapy to me.