Reading an article in an American newspaper entitled "Much work remains after Breast Cancer Awareness Month" started me thinking about how much the dedicated month achieved for the UK breast cancer charities. So, I asked a few of them.The Breast Cancer Haven (www.thehaven.org.uk) - now re-branded as simply The Haven - offers all types of complementary therapy support in  peaceful yet positive settings. The charity tells me its fund-raising for the month was very successful - £93,000 plus £20,000 from the Vitacress Salads' packets of watercress (proven to kill off cancer cells) sold at Sainsbury's. The new website has had three times the number of visitors in its first month - one of the reasons being that there is now an outreach programme (Haven at Home) available on-line for the first time.Walk the Walk (www.walkthewalk.org) - which organises the hugely successful London and Edinburgh Moonwalks (raising millions) with ladies sporting bizarre bras - uses the money it raises to make grants for specific projects. The charity told me that "The Christie Trust in Manchester applied for and was granted £100,000 to enable more patients to benefit from complementary therapies and Walk the Walk also donated funds to Christie's Chemotherapy unit for 4 Paxman Scalp Coolers as part of its dedicated Scalp Cooling Programme."The Breast Cancer Campaign (www.breastcancercampaign.org) describes its month as a "pink frenzy".  The charity tells me that its "Wear it Pink" campaign, sponsored by Vanish, is on target to raise £3 million. Also supported by Debenhams and Asda and with Pink Aerobics in Hyde Park, the money raised will go to fund research into how breast cancer develops. The charity offers fellowships and grants for research into prevention, care, treatment and the role of complementary therapies.Genesis (www.genesisuk.org) gave no specific details of the result of its awareness month but explained that it is the only charity dedicated to research into prevention of the disease.  "One in ten women are diagnosed with breast cancer in the UK.  It is our goal to make one in ten, none in ten".The Pink Ribbon Foundation (www.pinkribbonfoundation.org.uk) is an organisation which gives grants to other cancer charities, individuals and groups.  There are over 50 on their list of recipients (including those associated with breast cancer) but, as it ensures that its costs are less than three per cent of the money donated, the Foundation does not target October as a campaigning month.Breast Cancer Care (www.breastcancercare.org.uk) used the month to raise awareness of the needs of those with secondary breast cancer, by launching the first "Secondary Breast Cancer Awareness Day". The charity is also concerned that there is still more to be done to raise awareness of breast cancer.  It stressed that more women need to be reached, particularly those who are in the "older age bracket", or who are "living in minority or deprived communities."A totally different approach comes from Breast Cancer UK (www.breastcanceruk.org.uk). The charity "does not associate with the pink emblem". It campaigns to raise awareness that "environmental pollutants and toxic chemicals in everyday products are linked to increasing breast cancer incidence and we want the Government to restrict the use of, or ban, these substances". The charity also tells me that it is "concerned about the levels of Pink Ribbon merchandising - many products sold may contain carcinogens or other hazardous materials linked to breast cancer".I hope to hear from others including Breakthrough Breast Cancer and if any other breast cancer charities, not mentioned on this post, would like to email me, please do so.  I am compiling a list of every UK breast cancer charity, fund-raising or support group - however small - and would be very grateful for your help. My email address is judith.potts@telegraph.co.ukDon't forget - if you have any questions for the new, fortnightly, "Ask Judith" post on this blog please email them to me at the same address.