The story of Brittany Maynard popped up in my Zite feed first thing Monday morning, and I still haven't been able to get it off my mind.This is the 29-year-old who, given six months to live back in April because of a stage 4 glioblastoma, a malignant brain tumor, intends to end her own life Nov. 1 by legal means — through Oregon's Death with Dignity measure.I wanted to forget this story — too painful for several deeply personal reasons. Plus it seemed particularly discordant here in Dallas, where another dreadfully ill person, this one infected with the Ebola virus, Thomas Eric Duncan, was fighting to live. He lost that battle yesterday.I also wanted to forget about Brittany because it feels more than a little icky to pass judgment on a dying person.But Brittany's story has gone viral, which is what she was hoping for as she uses her impending death to fight for  the expansion of death-with-dignity laws nationwide. In addition to Oregon, these states — Washington, Montana, Vermont and New Mexico — passed similar bills. Compassion  Choices has campaigns in place in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Jersey.Since Oregon's law went into effect in 1997, 1,173 people in that state have had prescriptions written under the act, and 752 have used them to die, according to Brittany's story, told exclusively to People magazine.Maybe that was the right decision for those 752 people; I can't say I know better. I do know that I've seen up-close what it's like to live without dignity. My own father has lived for almost a decade in a stroke-induced mute and mostly paralyzed state. We have no idea what he thinks — or how much he even does — about his existence. But I don't think he would go the Oregon-law route. And while many times it might have been easier on all of us if he did want to choose death, the whole family has learned a lot by walking this bewildering and often heart-breaking path.Brittany explains her decision this way: "My glioblastoma is going to kill me, and that's out of my control. I've discussed with many experts how I would die from it, and it's a terrible, terrible way to die. Being able to choose to go with dignity is less terrifying."The same state 4 glioblastoma killed my good friend Steve Damm; he received that diagnosis in January 2008. He lived longer than the six months Brittany's doctor gave her, but he passed away Sept. 7, 2009. You can read more about his crushing but amazingly uplifting final years — and about his amazing wife Tyra and two children — here.I know Steve despaired at times and I know Steve suffered in his final days. For months before his death, he lost the ability to do one thing after another. And I know he was scared for many, many months. But I also witnessed the blessings of suffering that came not only to Steve and his family but to their circle of friends. Steve's journey through this greatest of trials left an impact on thousands of people.I also know we never gave up on a miracle. And, in fact, those extra months he got — beyond doctors' first dire messages- was a miracle.Perhaps Brittany's death — and her campaign for Death with Dignity laws to be enacted in more states — will spur action in this arena. And according to Brittany, that will mean that she — and her awful tragedy and death — will make a difference. But I hope she knows that she counts just on the basis of "being." And that there are many ways to make a difference.Here's what I do know from watching people I love die: Individually, we are terrified when death approaches, no matter what we may have said in previous months or years. That total loss of control is a terror you must have to face to really understand. Brittany has chosen one route through that terror. Steve and others we have lost here at the DMN have chosen other paths.My bottom line on the Death with Dignity movement? Passing laws to dull the pain and terror of death is not nearly as valuable as learning, as an individual and a community, how to walk loved ones through that fear and despair.