In the months that I have been writing this blog, I have discovered so many issues surrounding breast cancer, about which I knew nothing. The latest to be brought to my attention is the need for women, about to undergo IVF, to provide a breast health report. I was very fortunate and did not find myself in the position of having to decide whether or not to seek IVF treatment.  For many women desiring children, particularly those whose biological clock is moving apace, IVF is the only answer.It seems that, having made the decision to try this form of infertility treatment, a growing number of  women are opting to travel to the USA, Asia or into Europe, where they can find less stringent laws about the use of donated eggs and less expensive treatment than that on offer in the UK. However, these clinics are now requiring evidence of the breast health of their clients before treatment begins. An assessment and report needs to come from a qualified breast specialist but the NHS cannot afford to produce such evidence. Also, the average age of a woman looking to undergo IVF is 36, which is too young for a mammogram on the NHS screening programme - and, at that age, the test is known not to work so well because of the density of the breasts.Having been alerted to the situation, Breast Health UK (www.breasthealthuk.com) is now offering a breast screening report service - either from a mammogram or, for younger women, a clinical breast examination or a Digital Infrared Breast Scan. The cost of the screening is between £60 and £160 and there is a list of Breast Health clinics on the company's website. It would seem that clinics in the UK will soon make breast checks mandatory too.So - does this mean that there is a link between IVF treatment and breast cancer? There does not seem to be any published, proven scientific link - but we know there are question marks over the use of the birth control pill and HRT and the development of breast cancer. I read now that women are beginning to ask the same question of infertility treatment - during which the levels of hormones are raised to stimulate the ovaries which, in turn, affects the balance of oestrogen and progesterone.  Both Ruth Picardie - who died of breast cancer at the age of 33 following one cycle of IVF and whose sister, Justine, started the Lavender Trust to support young women with breast cancer (more in a later blog post) - and Sarah Parkinson, the late wife of Paul Merton - who also died from breast cancer following IVF - were both convinced their cancer was triggered by the IVF treatment.However, several large studies in Denmark and Australia have found no link between the two.  If IVF clinics are now asking for breast health reports, surely that means a link is suspected?  Cancer Research UK (www.cancerhelp.org.uk) states that "women who have fertility treatment have a slight increase in risk of some types of cancer but women who are infertile have a higher risk of breast, ovarian and womb cancers". Therefore, is the cancer related to the treatment or the original infertility?Professor Gordon Wishart, Breast Health UK's Medical Director, says that "Many breast cancer specialists now suspect that there may be a link between breast cancer and IVF treatment".I am not sure where that leaves anyone who has to make the unenviable decision about IVF. Is there any research being done on the subject? Please email me if you can shed any more light on this question - judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk