Are you suffering side effects from your anti-breast cancer medication? Does Tamoxifen give you hot flushes, night sweats and joint pain -or worse?Having come through a particularly difficult menopause, I recognized all three side-effects and, although they are lessening after two and half years on the drug, I still feel as though I am having the longest menopause known to man (or woman!) I also suffer from leg, thigh and hand cramps - sometimes all at once. Having never suffered from cramp in my life, I used to be less than sympathetic to footballers who roll around on the ground when cramp strikes them. Not any more - I know just how they feel. It is agonisingly painful.Always, at the back of my mind, are the possible, very serious, side effects of deep vein thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (low platelet count) which can produce aneurysms - consult your GP if you have any unexplained bleeding or if you start to bruise easily. For pre-menopausal women there is the added worry of womb cancer.Recent research has discovered that the side effects of Tamoxifen are stopping women from completing the five year course. Researchers say that cancer is less like to return in women who take it for five years than those who stop after two. Men are not mentioned in this piece of research.  As an acting and presentation coach, the worst side effect for me has been a change in my voice but, after a good deal of thought and discussion with my oncologist, I will continue to take the medication for the full five years and carry on coping with the side effects. A recent four week bout of salmonella prevented me from taking the tablets and I can't help but wonder if that will make a difference.The journalist, Verite Reily Collins, found that her course of Tamoxifen turned her temporarily blind in one eye - which I have discovered is known to occur in 1 in 500 people but is not mentioned on most lists of side-effects - and covered her body in bleeding lesions. Her consultants and breast cancer nurses refused to believe there could be any link between the drug and the side-effects - "I've never seen it before" and "It's your age" were two of the answers given to her.  Not content with their opinions, Verite set out to see whether or not European oncologists thought the same. She travelled to France and discovered that French doctors acknowledged many more possible side-effects from this medication and always discussed the various possibilities with their patients.  Happily, the French medical treatment worked and Verite has launched her own website - http://after-cancer.com/ - with helpful suggestions to combat side effects and discusses many other cancer-related issues.According to Lancet Oncology, the medical profession is considering the possibility of using drugs like Tamoxifen to reduce some women's chances of developing breast cancer. The drug is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for use as preventative treatment, but not in the UK - yet.The key factors which are used to identify women at risk of developing breast cancer include family history, bodyweight, lack of exercise, alcohol intake, reproductive history and increasing age. Also mentioned is breast density, detected by a mammogram. On a positive note, tamoxifen might have some protective effect on the bones and might lower the level of lipids (fat) in the bloodIt seems to me that, if offered tamoxifen as a preventative measure, patients would have a good deal to weigh up before coming to a decision.What are your thoughts?What are your side effects and how do you cope with them?What do you recommend as helpful complementary therapies?Please email me at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk