Monte Anderson, real estate broker and owner of the Belmont Hotel, wrote on our Monday Viewpoints page about his vision for successful development in southern Dallas.You can read the entire column here, in which Anderson makes an interesting and persuasive case for why small projects by local developers are the key to southern Dallas success.Judging by his portfolio, Anderson knows a thing or two about success.He has decades of real estate negotiations under his belt. In addition to his Main Street project in Duncanville and work in Midlothian, he's been busy these last years in north Oak Cliff, including - along with the Belmont redo in West Dallas — the revamping of a grand old fire station (now a Gloria's) and the renovation of the Texas Theater.No wonder that, although he has a home in DeSoto, he lives part-time in the Belmont. Also worth noting: He's a long-timer in southern Dallas, attending Carter High School before graduating in 1976 from Midlothian High School.What intrigued me most in Anderson's column was his prescription for success: "Hook into positive activity that is already underway.  Do the developing — or redeveloping — next to thriving areas such as the Dallas Zoo, Bishop Arts or Jefferson Boulevard. Get a project going there, then start another and another, moving out from the center."The idea of building on prior successes is something our Bridging Dallas' North-South Gap project has embraced from the beginning. We have focused much of our efforts on neighborhoods that have demonstrated a potential for progress that could radiate outward.The mayor takes a similar approach with his Grow South efforts.While I'm opining from 508 Young Street, Monte Anderson is in the community pretty much 24-7 these days trying to stir up development success. Sure, he wants to make money; but he also wants to coach and help other local developers. He's got a full head of steam when it comes to passion around his local entrepreneurs ideas.So I wanted Anderson to give me a real-life example of what he's talking about. Here's what I learned from him:You may already know that Elmwood is a lovely and already great community in Oak Cliff, an area defined roughly by the DART Red Line, Polk, Illinois and Hampton. It may not have gotten the kind of love heaped on Bishop Arts and points north, but it's way more affordable.Within Elmwood is a small retail area in the Edgefield-Ferndale corridor.Anderson explains how the small-development dots could connect:- Elmwood is close enough to the bustling success of Bishop Arts and Jefferson Boulevard to bask in their momentum.- It has neighbors and entrepreneurs who want to come together to make it an even better community.- On its edge is the Tyler/Vernon station, boasting both DART light rail (red line) and bus service. And the station is among one of the most beautiful and pedestrian-friendly on the system.- A Grow South grant already is funding a dog park in Elmwood.- The streets line up for the possibility of a major bike route that allows connection all the way up Tyler to Sylvan and into West Dallas.Why haven't bigger players in the development game already swooped in? Anderson says Elmwood is too small for a big developer. He says that what's needed next are renovations of the smallish retail buildings with the hope that local entrepreneurs will buy them, possibly with the help of some buy-down funding from the city.Anderson would also like to see the city handle the necessary street and sidewalk improvements that would be required.Anderson's role so far? People in Elmwood approached him about development and his response was, "let me show you how." His dream is that Elmwood could be a living, breathing example of what he wrote about Monday. And that success would lead to yet another success along the edge of Elmwood. And another. And another.This is just the top line of a much deeper story that I'll post more about in coming days ... and try to update with photos. For now, I'll give Anderson the last word here, again from his column:As someone who grew up in southern Dallas and focuses much of my work here, I believe the only way forward is to rebuild or repurpose one house, one building, one block, one business or one park at a time.Teaching others who live in southern Dallas how to be their own developers will lead to long-term financial stability. We should mentor entrepreneurs on how to do it, then back off. The developments will be owned by new stakeholders who can do their own thing — rather than having to wait for a bunch of outsiders to do something.I'm not saying we do not need big capital. The money just needs to flow in harmony with small local enterprises.Check out more photos of retail possibilities on the jump.