Ovarian cancer affects annually 6,700 women in the UK and 12 women die every day from this deadly form of gynaecological cancer. At the moment - just like breast cancer 20 years ago - not enough is known or understood about the causes of ovarian cancer. It is suspected that - in young women - the cells of the ovary do not repair themselves after ovulation. However, 95 per cent of the cases  are found in post-menopausal women - so what is happening in these cases?A friend of mine has ovarian cancer.  While carrying out a hysterectomy, her gynaecologist made the decision - with the best of intentions - to leave a small piece of ovary so that she would not crash straight into the menopause.  Some 20 years later, this tiny piece of ovary became cancerous and it is proving extremely difficult to eradicate.  After the first bout of chemotherapy all seemed fine but, some months later, the cancer returned and she is undergoing a second series of chemotherapy and can do no more than keep her fingers crossed.March is Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month and three of the specialist cancer charities are working hard to raise women's awareness of the symptoms.  If this cancer is caught early enough there is a good survival rate but far too often women are embarrassed to pay a visit to their doctor or - as the condition is difficult to diagnose because its symptoms can be confused with irritible bowel syndrome - unless the GP has a special interest in gynaecological cancers, ovarian cancer is placed at the bottom of the list of potential diagnoses. All of which means that, by the time the cancer is diagnosed, it is at Stage II and, therefore, much harder to treat.These are the symptoms which should take you to your GP:Persistent tummy pain; increased tummy size; persistent bloating; difficulty eating; feeling full quickly.Occasionally - urinary symptoms, changes in bowel habits, extreme fatigue and back pain can be experienced at the same time.At the moment there is no screening programme available and smear tests do not check for the presence of ovarian cancer. However, there is trial underway - the UK Collaborative Trial of Ovarian Cancer Screening - which is being co-ordinated by University College Hospital's Gynaecological Cancer Research Centre and is funded jointly by The Medical Reserch Council, Cancer Research UK and the Department of Health. The trial runs until 2014 and the 202,638 women, aged 50-75, come from 13 regional centres and have been chosen at random. The test involves  blood tests to detect the CA125 protein (which is released in high levels if ovarian cancer is present - but, confusingly, can also appear at equally high levels to coincide with other gynaecological factors) or ultrasound scans and a control group which is given neither test.Ovarian Cancer Action's survey, conducted recently, revealed that "80 per cent of women would not recognise the symptoms of ovarian cancer" and, on asking 1,000 women across the UK what the top five essentials that every woman should remember, discovered the most popular responses were:-1) to take out their last tampon, 2) to brush their teeth morning and night, 3) to put on deodorant, 4) to send a mother's day card, 5) to check that their skirt is not tucked into their knickers.Please could we put - at the top of the list - regular checking of breasts (and for men too) and if you have any of the symptoms listed above, don't wait but go immediately to your GP and mention ovarian cancer - particularly if your doctor does not do so. Women are good at understanding their bodies - they know when something is amiss - and should not feel diffident about visiting their GP.  Dr. Pixie McKenna (of "Embarrassing Bodies" fame) is backing the campaign.  She says: "I would ask women not to neglect their bodies - you may be ignoring the warning signs that something is not quite right. The sooner we can see you the better."For help, information and support please visit www.ovarian.org.uk which funds the Research Centre at Imperial College, London or www.ovacome.org.uk which has a confidential nurse-led support service or www.targetovarian.org.uk which is working in conjuction with the Eve Appeal for gynaecological cancers.