The Alzheimer's Society tells us that, by 2021, half a million people in the UK will be living with undiagnosed dementia. It seems to me that too many GPs are happy not to refer an elderly person - using "short-term memory loss" as a catch-all. Is this because there are far too few consultants in this medical field? Is it because of the financial implications for the GP practice? The Alzheimer's Society is working with GPs to increase their understanding of dementia - but how many are listening? I have yet to persuade my Mother-in-law's GP to refer her for diagnosis - yet it apparent to everyone that she has a problem beyond "short-term memory loss".My own Mother - who was diagnosed but only because the Matron of the Barchester Nursing Home had more clout than me - was visited once by the consultant for the care of the elderly (no longer called Psycho-Geriatricians) for the East Riding area and that was that. Six months into her illness - and she had the Charles Bonnet Syndrome running alongside, with its ghastly hallucinations - I rang every hospital and clinic in the area until I managed to track down the said consultant. He was not pleased and protested that he did not usually speak to relatives. I argued that most patient's relatives are not medically trained and, therefore, need help and guidance as the illness progresses - but I argued in vain. He never returned to see his patient and I never spoke to him again. He confessed to not knowing of the Charles Bonnet syndrome - despite the fact that elderly people tend to lose some or all of their eyesight and, therefore, could be prone to developing this condition. It would come under ophthalmology not care of the elderly - which I suppose is the explanation.It also seems that many people are reluctant to discuss their worries. I wonder if the Victorian and Edwardian stigma attached to any sort of mental illness still influences people today? There is medication available for some forms of dementia but, without a formal diagnosis, the patient can receive neither the appropriate drugs nor community support. It is clear that we must persuade people that the mind can become sick as easily as the body - no one looks away from a broken leg, a diseased heart or breast cancer but the word "dementia" is uttered in hushed tones.Funding research and training more dementia support professionals is obviously the way forward and Tesco's has started the ball rolling by choosing the Alzheimer's Society to be its charity of the year. To help place dementia firmly in the public eye,  Tesco's is funding the Dementia Community Roadshow. For three years this will travel throughout the UK; on board with be trained volunteers from The Alzheimer's Society and Alzheimer's Scotland, who will give information and advice about the symptoms of dementia - in all its forms - and point people towards obtaining a diagnosis. Tesco's Chairman, David Reid, said that with 750,000 people known to be living with diagnosed dementia it means "half of Tesco's staff and customers have a relative or friend with dementia". Quite a sobering thought - particularly if you add the unknown numbers who have yet to be diagnosed.If you are concerned about your memory - or that of a friend or relative - the Alzheimer's Society runs a helpline - 0845 300 0336 - from which you can receive advice on the different ways to approach your GP to obtain a referral. The Roadshow is accepting invitations from towns and cities - visit www.alzheimers-tesco.org.uk and add your local Tesco to the list.