Hot on the heels of my blog piece about the breast check reminder service available from Breast Health UK, an email from Breakthrough Breast Cancer (www.breakthrough.org.uk) arrived, to remind me of Breakthrough's newly-launched app.To continue its theme of TLC - Touch (do you feel anything unusual?), Look (do you see any changes in the shape, the skin or the nipple?) Check (consult your GP immediately if you are concerned) - and to encourage more women to check themselves regularly, Breakthrough has produced this app for iPhones, which can be downloaded free from iTunes or from www.ibreast.com.The app consists of three ingredients. First of all, there are images and a video, created to explain what you should be looking for and how to check yourself. Secondly, there is an alert system which will remind you to carry out regular checks and this can be set at a convenient time for you. Thirdly, there is a "Risk Report", which Breakthrough describes as an "interactive quiz". Using environmental factors, family history and lifestyle your risk of developing breast cancer can be assessed and, once the quiz has been completed, a report is generated for you to read.I rang Breakthrough and asked the same question as I did to Breast Health UK - is this app solely for women or can men use it too?  The answer was that "yes, it is written solely for women but there is no reason why men cannot adapt it for their own use". Breakthrough is conducting a big research project on breast cancer in men and, when I visit them in the next few weeks, I am looking forward to learning more about it.We are about to move from Breast Cancer Awareness Month to Lung Cancer Awareness Month - and the unhappy fact that, not only is lung cancer the second most common form of cancer in the UK, but figures for the last ten years show that cases of the disease are decreasing in men but increasing in women. Macmillan Cancer Support (www.macmillan.org.uk) places the blame fairly and squarely on smoking and the fact that more women are taking up the habit. I am certain that there will be much discussion about this during the next few weeks.