I am taking a short break in the USA and endeavouring not to look too closely at British newspapers. However, my English friend, who lives here in New York, has just given me the sad news of the death of Claire Rayner - journalist, agony aunt, nurse, midwife and health visitor.Rayner was an amazing woman, never afraid to speak her mind or challenge the government. She was President of the Patients' Association and worked tirelessly to improve the NHS. In 1996 she was awarded the OBE for services to women's issues and health issues.For many people - women especially - she will always be remembered for her robust reaction to her diagnosis of breast cancer. Aged 70, she said she was not surprised that it had developed, was not concerned about losing a breast but was bothered by the fact that she might have to face chemotherapy.In the event, she had a radical mastectomy and - because she had spoken to women who were caused terrible back pain by losing one breast - asked to have both breasts removed. This proved to be exactly the right decision as early traces of cancer were found in the second breast.The cancer had not spread to her lymph nodes and neither chemotherapy not radiotherapy were deemed appropriate. She refused reconstructive surgery, saying that "at 70 she was more than just a boob on legs".She began taking tamoxifen but the side effects were so ghastly that she stopped. She was always supportive of people who believed in complementary medicine but asked them to "never let go of the message that orthodox medicine can provide for you" - citing her own recovery from breast cancer as proof.Rayner appeared on many television shows - in one or other of her roles - and from her experience as a midwife wrote books about child care, together with a series of novels and her autobiography. She served on the Prime Minister's Commission on Nursing and on the Royal Commission on the Care of the Elderly, as well as working for the Asthma Society.She underwent intestinal surgery last May, from which she never recovered. It is reported that she told her relatives she wanted her last words to be "Tell David Cameron if he screws up my beloved NHS I'll come back and bloody haunt him".Claire Rayner was a brave and feisty lady who, on the morning of her double mastectomy, took a last look at her breasts and wrote on them "Bye bye boobies". It caused much hilarity in the operating theatre. Claire was the medical voice of common sense, loved and trusted by so many people. She will be greatly missed.