The word "chemotherapy" immediately conjures up images of bandanna wearing ladies or totally bald men but, sometimes, it is possible to prevent your hair from falling out. The "cold cap" or The Plant Programme both offer ways of combating hair loss.While not available in every hospital, the "cold cap" is coming into its own as a method of retaining your hair while undergoing particular chemotherapy treatments. Keeping the scalp icy cold means that the blood circulation is restricted,   the chemotherapy drug is kept at bay and as little as possible reaches the hair follicles.The cold cap can only be used for certain chemotherapy treatments. (Some chemotherapy drugs do not cause hair loss, some cause slight loss but some will definitely mean that the hair falls out.) For example, with a cancer like leukaemia, there may be cancer cells near the scalp so, in this instance, the cold cap cannot be used.Listening to cancer patients talking about their experiences, it seems that not everyone can tolerate the intense cold.  I have heard and read the description of sitting under the cap as "the worst ice-cream migraine". The cap needs to be applied 15 minutes before the chemotherapy treatment begins and - depending on the drug - has to remain in place for up to 2 hours afterwards. There is no guarantee that it will work but, for some people, it has reduced significantly the amount of hair loss.The two most common forms of cold cap are the hat/cap/turban, which is filled with a cooling gel and fits very closely and firmly over the scalp or the machine which is like a salon hair dryer and circulates icy air round the scalp. Do you know of any others? Does the whole body become so cold that thermals are a necessity during treatment? What was your experience? Did the cold cap work for you?The Plant Programme - devised by Professor Jane Plant, of whom I have written in an earlier post - recommends a diet high in folic acid to prevent hair loss during chemotherapy treatment. Jane is convinced that, by following her Programme - which is a dairy free, processed food free, organic diet - the body effectively produces its own protection. She has many examples of other people who used The Plant Programme and, like her, had the same excellent results.Every day during her chemotherapy, Jane drank half a pint of green Bramley apple juice mixed 50:50 with fennel juice, half a pint of carrot juice and ate a good deal of melon - and stuck firmly to her diet. In her book she describes watching other people, who were taking folic acid in tablet form, losing their hair but, to the amazement of her hairdresser, Jane's hair grew thicker and darker.Has anyone else had a similar experience? Or does anyone have another suggestion for retaining the hair? Please email me at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.