My blog post about hyperthermia produced emails from people wanting to have more information about the subject - from all parts of the globe. Some emails were from cancer patients who felt that this form of treatment might be their last chance.In writing about the Hope4Cancer Clinic in Mexico, I took some of the information from the clinic's website but additional information came from a very experienced American health writer called Marla Manhart, who writes about alternative cancer therapies (among other subjects).But who is she? I emailed her to find out. Marla replied, telling me that she is not only a health writer of 20 years experience, but now runs a free cancer patient information service - listening to people's medical histories and referring them to the appropriate clinics or doctors. From her acquired knowledge she understands the different alternative treatments and how they work; how much they cost and how to finance the stay in the clinic; which are the clinics of high reputation, which have success with particular treatments and which should be avoided.She sets up consultation appointments with doctors for the patients and stays in touch after treatment to de-brief them on their experience overall - cleanliness, friendliness, efficiency etc. She lives in Florida but has worked in Baja California, Mexico - which is where the Hope4Cancer Clinic and many others are based.As we all know, the internet gives us an overload of information and Marla tells me that her mission is to "help patients find the best care available". She has two websites, which both offer free services www.germancancerclinics.com and www.mexicancancerclinics.com.Nutrition plays such an important part in the prevention of cancer and the newest member of the group of cancer-fighting foods is watercress. It has been shown to turn off a signal in the body which, in turn suppresses the development of breast cancer cells by starving the tumour of blood and oxygen.For the first two weeks of this month - Breast Cancer Awareness Month - Vitacress, a major watercress supplier, has joined with Sainsbury's to donate 5p from each bunch to The Breast Cancer Haven. The aim is to donate £20,000 to the Haven for its work offering complementary therapies to breast cancer patients. Watercress has taken its place with the cancer fighting foods because it suppresses breast cancer cell development.