This coming weekend marks the beginning of Breast Cancer Awareness Month and my attention has been drawn to some of the fund-raising events on offer.Let us start with FACT (Fighting All Cancers Together) who is hosting at day at The Metro Centre, Gateshead on Saturday 2 October. FACT will be offering 40 areas of support, and is sponsored by Insurancewith (www.insurancewith.com) - the insurance company which specialises in providing cover for cancer patients and people with rare and debilitating conditions - and Lookgoodfeelbetter (www.lookgoodfeelbetter.co.uk) - who run skincare and makeup workshops to help women manage the visible side effects of cancer (of which more in a future post). The areas of support FACT provides include holistic therapists, specialist underwear suppliers, support groups, makeup and skin care consultants, financial and benefit advisors plus education and prevention issues and the chance for cancer patients and their families to meet others in a similar position. For information visit www.fact-cancersupport.co.uk.In Manchester on the same day, 2 October, St Ann's Hospice is giving a Ladies Fashion Lunch at the Palace Hotel. The John Lewis store is providing the fashion show and details can be found on 0161 498 3628 or email kbeardow@sah.org.uk.Breakthrough Breast Cancer's "Lawyers of London" black tie dinner and dance is being held at the Waldorf Hilton Hotel, London. The special guest is Garry Richardson, the BBC Sports Broadcaster and for details of this event visit http://event4breakthrough.com.There are more celebrities on show at The Grosvenor House Hotel, Park Lane, London on Wednesday 6 October. Diana Moran is hosting a lunchtime champagne reception and afternoon tea, followed by Gabby Logan who is doing the honours for the evening. Although, to my mind, the real celebrities are the 24 women and one man - all of whom have had breast cancer - who are strutting their stuff on the catwalk, once in the afternoon and again in the evening. For tickets please visit theshow@breastcancercare.org.uk.Lastly to Wales where, in Rhyl, Breast Cancer Care is opening four free sessions of workshops called "Moving Forward". The course is aimed at those people who have just had a breast cancer diagnosis or who might need some support in adjusting to life after treatment. The subjects include lymphoedema awareness, intimacy and relationships, cancer fatigue and coping mechanisms for the menopause. The dates for the workshops are 7th, 14th, 20th and 28th and there are places still available on the course. If you can commit to all four workshops, please book your place by contacting cym@breastcancercare.org.uk.My tiny village in East Yorkshire raised £500 at the Macmillan Coffee Morning last Friday. If that sum is reflected all over the country, Macmillan will have succeeded in meeting their target of £8 million. People are amazingly generous - even in these harsh economic times.