For anyone who has undergone chemotherapy - or suffered from alopecia - the loss of their hair can cause physical and emotional problems. Some people choose not to cover their baldness, finding it more comfortable not to have to bother with wigs, hats or scarves.  Other women search for something bright to cheer them as they go about their daily life - from the supermarket to the school gates or the office.When Ciara Priestly, from Newtownards in Northern Ireland, was undergoing chemotherapy, she found it difficult to source good quality scarves and hats.  Ciara was 26 years old and pregnant with her second child when she was offered genetic testing for the brca1 gene. She has a family history of breast and ovarian cancer - both of which are served by this gene.After giving birth to her daughter, she was given the result of the test, which showed she had an 80 per cent chance of developing breast cancer. She was offered two choices.  She could be screened from the age of 30 or she could choose to have a prophylactic double mastectomy. I cannot begin to imagine having to make such a drastic decision but Ciara - a very brave lady - chose the latter. She also decided to have a double reconstruction at the same time as the mastectomies.A little while later, when she returned to the hospital to have her stitches removed, she discovered that, despite a clear MRI scan, she did, in fact, have grade 3 breast cancer. Chemotherapy followed and then her ovarian cancer markers rose, so she underwent a radical hysterectomy.At the end of all this, Ciara - who had always been interested in fashion - decided to use her talent to create the comfortable headwear she had not been able to fine.  Using fabrics which are kind to sensitive skin, letting it breathe but keeping the head warm, Ciara has designed hats, scarves (some from the designs of the 1920s) and night caps - for children and adults.As we all know, after breast surgery it is extremely difficult to raise your arms, so tying a regular scarf is well-nigh impossible. Ciara is very much aware of this and her designs are ready-made to slip on  - and stay on.Her website shows her bespoke designs. Follow the measurement instructions on the screen and, if there is a problem, adjustments are made free of charge.  Should you happen to live in Northern Ireland, Ciara offers private consultations.  She works with local charities, visits patients at home or in hospital and continues to design head coverings to raise the spirits.To see her work visit www.headscarvesbyciara.co.uk or email her at headscarvesbyciara@yahoo.co.uk.