Following reports that Boots the Chemist has been in discussions with the NHS about offering cancer patients the chance to have their chemotherapy in their local high street pharmacy, I wondered whether or not this would be restricted to Boots alone?So - I paid a visit to my local chemist in west London. Dinesh Patel and his wife, Gita, have run Temple Pharmacy for as long as I can remember - indeed, I taught acting to their youngest child and she is now a solicitor! What was once a small shop, has grown and developed into a multi-service centre offering all kinds of treatments and diagnoses, once the exclusive preserve of the local GP. I had not realised the scale and speed in which the high street chemist has taken over so many important medical services - but, then, I thought, why not? What more could they be offering?Dani already offers cardiovascular and diabetes screening; help with giving up smoking; advice on weight management with a regular weight-loss programme; acupuncture; homeopathy; osteopathy; chiropody and podiatry; medical treatment of minor cuts and injuries; emergency contraception; medicine use reviews; private, confidential consultations of all kinds and support for self-care through healthy lifestyles. In the shop is an on-line information kiosk - constantly updated - which you can interrogate with health questions and issues.If Boots is going to provide chemotherapy clinics, would Dani think of doing the same? " No", is his answer - it would require too great a step-change. However, with encouragement and support, perhaps Dani and his colleagues could take even more pressure off the NHS - maybe some of the work done by a GP's practice nurse could be re-located to the local pharmacy?Coinciding with the news about Boots and chemotherapy, I have just read a paper by J J de Gorter -  Director of Clinical Services at Spire Healthcare - in which he puts forward his view that patients are "safer being treated in a specialist cancer centre or a hospital", where they would have "rapid access to emergency treatment should complications arise" and "where they have the therapeutic benefits of company and sharing experiences with other people being treated". His paper deals with patients having their chemotherapy at home - but the arguments apply equally to Boots. It reminds me of the on-going debate about the wisdom or otherwise of a home birth.Will the Boots idea come to fruition? This may not be the right initiative but it is important to encourage new thinking and fresh ideas to deal with the ever-growing demands on health provision. Dani is a pioneer in this landscape - good luck to him!