Cancer has taken the life of another actor. The wonderfully talented Pete Postlethwaite - admired by all who worked with him - died this week. Kevin Spacey described him as "a great man of the theatre" and so he was. Pete Postlethwaite developed and played brilliantly a vast and varied range of characters but his performance as Obadiah Hakeswill in the TV dramatisation of the Sharpe novels will be long remembered in our household - a huge favourite with my husband.Pete Postlethwaite praised the treatment and care he received from the Shrewsbury hospital. I wish I could say the same for the hospital to which Sylvia, my mother-in-law, was taken by ambulance just before Christmas. The GP had been called to the residential care home in which she lives - Sylvia has severe dementia - because she had not been eating or, more importantly, drinking for 24 hours and was virtually comatose. The GP diagnosed possible pneumonia and asked that Sylvia should be put on a re-hydration and anti-biotic drip within two hours. I accompanied Sylvia in the ambulance to Scarborough hospital. The paramedics' care was faultless and, at the suggestion of the GP, we bypassed A and E and went straight to the ward. This was our first mistake.The ward was called an "assessment" ward. Unfortunately, no assessing of Sylvia's condition was carried out for several hours. I understand that recent policy in the NHS requires patients to be held for no longer than 4 hours in Casualty. Clearly, this does not apply to the "assessment" ward. Sylvia was put into a bed - still wrapped in the duvet in which the paramedics had carried her into the ambulance - and the bed pushed against a wall because it was missing a cot-side. This meant no privacy because the curtain was trapped between the bed and the wall and revealed a floor which had not seen a cleaner recently.After waiting three hours, I approached a female nurse and explained about the GP's wishes. Standing under a poster warning patients and their families not to abuse hospital staff, the nurse sarcastically answered me. "With all due respect, darling, it is for the hospital doctor to decide on diagnosis and treatment not the GP." I backed away. Sylvia was left to lie semi-conscious on the bed for another hour. During this time both she (whose breathing was not improving, despite the oxygen administered by the paramedics) and I were totally ignored by the other nurses on the ward - there was no evidence of shortness of staff; indeed a lot of eating and chatting was going on at the nurses' station. I watched a technician arrive to take blood from one very disturbed lady patient and leave with raised eyes and "Oh my God" uttered for us all to hear. Finally, a student nurse attempted to take Sylvia's personal details. The procedure was lengthy because I had to spell virtually every word.Eventually a doctor appeared. He was perfectly polite and, after examining Sylvia, took us to one side, explained that there were "quite a few things going on with Sylvia" and asked for our decision on resuscitation. Not having realised Sylvia's condition was that serious, we were very shocked - not least because she had been left untreated. The doctor asked us to think about it and let the consultant know our answer.  The whereabouts of the consultant was a mystery. Neither he nor his team were in attendance, despite the fact that there were two other elderly ladies with chronic dementia on the ward.Visiting time was now over and we left - the doctor having assured us that Sylvia would be treated and someone would ring us with an update. Three hours later I rang the ward to be told that the drip was about to be administered - some nine hours since the GP's visit. Next morning I rang again - quite prepared for Sylvia to have died in the night - to be told that she was absolutely fine and could go home. Pleased though we were, we wanted an explanation. Nothing tallied. However, Sylvia was not sent home that day because she became unwell again - so Scarborough Hospital (who needed the bed) transferred her, in the middle of the following night, on oxygen, to Bridlington Hospital. Here there were a few more smiles but no other improvement.  This time she was put on a "stroke" ward and when I enquired I was told that Sylvia could not be under a dementia consultant because she was on a stroke ward.Therefore, her consultant was a stroke consultant - "but", I said weakly, "she hasn't had a stroke".  "It does not matter", I was told, "she is on a stroke ward". So that was that.  To be fair, the stroke consultant did his best for Sylvia. But, to this day - despite telephone calls to the hospital and faxes to the GP - we have had no answers and no diagnosis.I have numerous questions including - was Sylvia apparently ignored? Why is there no communication between the GP and the ward staff - and is this nurse's opinion, of the GP's ability to diagnose, commonly found in NHS wards? Why are NHS staff allowed to treat relatives with so little respect but we have to keep quiet? Why was there no polite, informed communication between the ward staff and me - I was not the only person sitting beside an elderly relative's bed, not knowing what to do? Why did no one call us, as had been promised? Where is the care for which we all pay our taxes and what has happened to all the money shovelled into these NHS hospitals? No wonder Scarborough is consistently bottom of the heap. Answers please to judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.It had a happy ending. Sylvia is back in her care home but the mysterious consultant has yet to call me. Happy New Year!...A Scarborough and North East Yorkshire Healthcare NHS Trust spokesperson said: