Yet another study is published which puts the UK's life expectancy rates for breast, bowel, ovarian and lung cancers lower than those of Australia, Canada, Denmark, Norway and Sweden. It is shocking to read that people who develop cancer over the age of 65 have the least chance of survival of any age-group.Commenting on the report, Professor Sir Michael Richards - the Government's cancer 'tsar' - says that "early diagnosis is now the focus of the national cancer strategy and a £10.75 million initiative in the New Year will raise awareness of the signs and symptoms of cancer". At last the Government is catching up with the many campaigns already run by the various cancer charities. Why has it taken so long? This is but the latest report to outline the problem.However, Professor Richards only focuses on early diagnosis. Is this not a misunderstanding of the evidence?  Yes, we all know that early detection improves recovery prospects but this research (partly funded by the Department of Health) compared survival rates after treatment - in some cases the UK's figure is more than 10 per cent lower than other countries. I know, from the many emails I receive, that treatment varies from country to country. Am I right in thinking that Professor Richards was one of the researchers taking part in the study?  If so, perhaps he would like to comment on the study's conclusion that the low survival rates in the UK are due to "late diagnosis and differences in treatment". The latter is a subject very close to the hearts of a great number of people who contact me - the fact that it is incredibly difficult, if not impossible, to find the same treatments in the UK as in other parts of the world. Is it too simplistic to wonder why our medical profession does not look beyond our borders, identify the best forms of treatment and adopt them?  If they work for other countries, then why are they not used here? Or do we blame NICE for our poor showing? I wonder how the research breaks down between cases where the cancer was caught early, which Professor Richards identifies as the key issue, and cases where the cancer was more advanced? Are there figures available?Let us all keep an eye on this latest multi-million "initiative". Meanwhile, I am taking a short break over the festive time - unless Professor Sir Michael Richards answers my questions; then I will report back.May I wish you all a very Merry Christmas and, in the words of the uniquely talented late Irish comic, Dave Allen, "may your God go with you".