October is Breast Cancer Awareness month and all the cancer charities are releasing their 2010 fund-raising plans. Pink, as always, is at the forefront of all the campaigns. The original pink ribbon - handed out by the Susan G. Komen Foundation to breast cancer survivors taking part in the 1991 New York City race - is still very much in evidence but the merchandise has expanded into pink ribbon pins (with or without diamante); pins in the shape of tennis racquets, golf clubs or hockey clubs wrapped in the pink ribbon logo; T shirts; pens; filofaxes; mobile telephones; almost anything which can be made in pink.Some of these goods can be bought directly from the various cancer charities but - judging by the result of entering "pink ribbon" into Google - there are a good many companies manufacturing these goods but which give only a small percentage of the profit to a breast cancer charity. Perhaps that is better than nothing? What do you think?Cancer Research UK has enlisted the help of four men - Martin Clunes, Liam Neeson, Michael Winner and Les Ferdinand - who all model pink handbags, which can be bought - with other pink products -  from Cancer Research's shops.  All four of these men agreed to take part because a friend or member of their family suffered from the disease. That is all great but the campaign is called "Join the Fight for Women's Survival".  Are we are not all aware by now that breast cancer is not just a female disease? I wonder - would it have been better to have used a different slogan? I suspect my male readers might have an opinion on that. The male voice is becoming more strident - and quite right too.Macmillan Cancer Support gets in first. Its "World's Biggest Coffee Morning" happens this coming Friday - 24th September - in cities, towns and villages all over the UK.  If you would like to find a Coffee Morning near your home, log onto www.macmillan.org.uk and click on their interactive map.  Last year the Coffee Morning helped to raise over £7 million and the target this year is £8 million.Lastly - I have become a grandmother!  My grandson was born three days ago to my son and his wife - and I could not be more proud!