Sir Mark Walport, director of the Wellcome Trust, this morning described malignant melanoma as one of the "nastiest" cancers. In its advanced state, tumours are resistant to drugs currently available. Following a piece by Tom Feilden, the science correspondent of the Today programme, Sir Mark explained that because of the sequencing of the human genome - which has its 10th anniversary this year - it has now been possible to develop a drug to target malignant melanoma which has metastasised. For the benefit of his non-scientific listeners, Sir Mark described the B-Raf gene - which causes the cancer - as being "stuck in the 'on' position".Trials of this drug - as yet unnamed but known as PLX4032 - are proving to be extremely successful. However, Sir Mark urged caution and said that "a cure was a bit too far to go" but tumours have definitely responded to the treatment and shrunk. Indeed, in two out of 20 cases, the tumour disappeared completely. But, obviously, these are very early days and results will depend on whether or not the tumours re-appear.As happens with a bacterial infection, cancer cells mutate, thus making them resistant to the chosen drug - and the same development has occurred with PLX4032. In malignant melanoma, researchers discovered thousands of mutations through which they had to sift to isolate those relevant to the cancer. However, using the knowledge gleaned from sequencing the human genome, it is now possible to map these mutations. Therefore, it will also be possible to develop new drugs to combat each mutation. Tiny numbers of cancer cells can be monitored and fingerprinted - and drugs tailor-made for each patient. If there is concern about the cost of common drugs now, I wonder how the NHS will respond when asked to fund tailor-made medication?There are, of course, side effects from PLX4032 - apparently none are catastrophic - the worst of which are small skin tumours which can be easily removed.Tom Feilden described the breakthrough as a "cancer's penicillin moment" and Sir Mark said: "We've moved to a rational era for understanding cancer."With such testimonials ringing in my ears, I rang Cancer Research UK to find its opinion. Ed Yong  - head of health information at the charity - said: "New genomic technologies are allowing research into the genetic faults that cause cancer to proceed at a rapid pace. There is still work to be done but this is the first time in 30 years that this level of response has been seen in melanoma patients in any clinical trial."As they all agree, this is but the beginning. However, it would appear that the latest step on the road to raising cancer survival rates has been taken.