London today is not an easy place to live at the moment. The tube strike is preventing so many of us from leading our normal lives.  But as I cancelled my social engagements for tonight, I reflected on the really important appointments that will not go ahead today. Without the tube, how will all the radiotherapy and chemotherapy patients travel for treatment? Even if patients find ways of getting to the hospitals, will there be any technicians, nurses or doctors? What about those patients due to have their surgery today? It may only be one day - but it could be a vital day for some cancer patients. In losing their slot, will some of them find themselves back down at the bottom of the queue?I am sure that among those union members who chose to strike today, there must be a number with relatives undergoing some form of treatment. It is disappointing that, through peer pressure, the plight of patients is ignored. I thought that, long ago, we had stopped industrial action victimising the sick and the needy.It is not only the unions.My breast cancer consultant was called for Jury Service. With his long operating list, he appealed to be allowed not to attend - to no avail.  Consequently, over 40 patients had their operations postponed while he sat in the waiting room at court (having been objected to by the defence), whiling away the time. This is a ludicrous situation.  Once again, the welfare of patients is being overlooked. The people responsible - most of them "public servants" - seem to be totally lacking in imagination or sensitivity.Yesterday, before the tube strike began in earnest, I was with two ladies from Breakthrough Breast Cancer and, during the conversation, I was shocked to learn that 1 in 17 cancer patients is in such dire financial distress that they lose their homes. This figure is from some years ago - I suspect, with the current economic climate, it is now higher. This is an appalling state of affairs.These are just three examples of society ignoring those in need. How can we let this happen? We talk of our plans to care for the vulnerable in society - but talk is so easy. When push comes to shove it is a completely different matter. What has happened to our sense of fairness, our concern for others and our public spirit?Perhaps the striking tube workers might consider using their day off to help those put in danger by their actions? I am sure some volunteer drivers with their cars would be of enormous help to the hospital transport departments.I wonder if any of you lost a day's treatment?  Email me at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk