That's a question we talked briefly about at yesterday's Editorial staff meeting. The latest news, broken by our own Rudy Bush (while he's on vacation, no less!) is that the idea that the city is locked in an ironclad contract with the NTTA to build the Trinity River toll road is, indeed, false.This revelation comes after a number of high-profile defections by former toll road supporters, among them Larry Good, who wrote about his change of heart in June on our Viewpoints page.Our boss made the right call yesterday — this is a discussion that we couldn't do justice to on a busy Wednesday afternoon. But rest assured that we'll be talking about the Trinity in coming weeks. Some of the individual board member's views are already well known — consider this piece by Rudy and this response from Rodger Jones.What really matters is what our newspaper's editorial voice has said. This editorial from August 2012 reflects a long-standing belief: "There's a reason that the design for the Trinity River floodway is called the Balanced Vision Plan. It is based on the idea that quality recreation and highway transportation can co-exist in the same urban space — a belief that this newspaper has endorsed for more than 14 years."It's also worth noting that we have had serious concerns about how the toll road was sold, for instance here. And most recently, we've been most interested in the recreational pieces of the Trinity plan. Add to that our excitement about lowering Interstate 30:It's unclear what the cost would be. But state officials who have briefed city leaders have indicated that funding for this project could be available in coming years. The plan would see the highway constructed in such a way to accommodate future decking.Of course, a study to sink I-30 should not take place in a bubble. The plan for the Trinity River toll road and the recent discussion of tearing down Interstate 345, the link between I-45 and Central, should be part of the conversation.But no project would be as beneficial to Dallas, and its core neighborhoods, as lowering I-30 and beginning to put the city back together again.As colleague Mike Hashimoto noted yesterday, regardless of the news that the City Council isn't locked into a Trinity deal, "Two referendums have put a road in that project. Who's willing to tell the voters they just wasted their time?"What the Editorial Board decides, in the end, is a long way from being settled. But it's going to be a fascinating discussion — assuming we all come out of it without a homicide. 