Michael Douglas, who was recently diagnosed with throat cancer, "knew there was something up".  His wife, Catherine Zeta-Jones, "knew there was something up". So why did none of the specialists they consulted know there was something up? Surely the symptoms of a dry and sore throat, ear pain and, most tellingly, vocal problems should have alerted the many consultants the couple visited that there was a problem.The voice is the actor's instrument and thus, it is an actor who would recognise immediately a change in vocal tone. I am sure Michael Douglas would have been acutely aware of any and every unusual sound or timbre. Did none of the doctors listen to him?Catherine Zeta-Jones is understandably and rightly angry that the problem went undetected, saying they "sought every option" but to no avail. It was only until a biopsy carried out in August revealed "late stage four cancer." The tests discovered a walnut-sized tumour at the base of Mr Douglas' tongue and he is now undergoing eight weeks of radiotherapy and chemotherapy to shrink it. He has an 80 per cent chance of recovery.We have to assume that the couple consulted the most experienced and highest-paid doctors in America. But the fact that none of them diagnosed the cancer in its early stages points to a radical problem with their diagnostic procedures.Sadly, this is a familiar story. I have received emails and read a number of articles and news stories about the issue of late diagnosis by doctors of all specialities, from GPs to consultants. It makes me wonder if some of the funds collected by the cancer charities, which currently go towards research, should be redirected to refreshing the diagnostic training. As I have written before, and as we all well know, if cancer is detected early, the chances of recovery are much higher and treatment less aggressive. It is in the interest of patients, doctors and the well-being of society that the illness is caught as soon as possible.It should not have to take a celebrity's late diagnosis of cancer to capture the attention of doctors but we can only hope that the media coverage of Ms Zeta-Jones' statement will force the medical profession to sit up and take notice. She is speaking for all those in a similar position.I was fascinated to hear from the technician who carried out my recent mammogram that doctors at her hospital are beginning to ask patients if they feel something is amiss. Quite often, the answer is "yes" and subsequent tests show the presence of a lump even if it is not visible at that point. Now that's what I call real "listening" by doctors.As Alan Bennett's character in "Nights in the Gardens of Spain" says of her friend who dies of cancer: "It is the first thing we think of and the last thing they do."