As body fat produces cancer-promoting hormones, those who exercise regularly, eat healthily, and keep their weight down are less likely to develop various forms of cancer - according to The World Cancer Research Fund. The fund's website states that "cancer is largely preventable" and suggests that exercise could prevent 5,500 cases of breast cancer and at least 4,600 cases of bowel cancer each year. It would also reduce the risk of women developing womb cancer."Largely preventable" is quite a statement. Does this actually mean that the WCRF believes most cancers to be our own fault? There are obvious links - smoking and lung cancer - but the entertainer Roy Castle developed lung cancer despite never smoking a cigarette in his life. He thought it may have been caused by the smoke filled clubs in which he worked, but who knows?I taught acting and movement for many years, breastfed my children, walked the dogs three miles each day, ate a healthy diet and was not overweight, yet I developed breast cancer. In fact, I cannot think of a single friend whose breast cancer could be blamed on weight issues caused by a lack of exercise or bad diet. Quite the reverse.Surely, it can't possibly be that simple. What worries me, is that in an attempt to oversimplify the issue, organisations like the WCRF are causing people unnecessary distress. Once diagnosed, it is only natural to question ourselves: how could I have prevented this? But the truth is, self- blame does not help either the acceptance of the diagnosis or the recovery.What I am sure about is that being fit through exercise does help enormously when disaster strikes and cancer is diagnosed. I am convinced that I recovered from surgery and managed six weeks of radiotherapy without too much exhaustion because I was physically fit at the outset. Of course, there were days when all I wanted to do was curl up in bed after treatment, but it was my dogs that saved me. On opening my front door, I would have their beseeching eyes looking at me, so out we went! They were a great incentive to stay active and, I suspect, without them my recovery would not have been so quick.Don't even get me started on food. Does anyone else find that the oestrogen suppressing medication, tamoxifen, makes you permanently hungry?  I have been wondering why that without warning, I suddenly feel like my blood sugar level has hit rock bottom while I drown in my own sweat. Naturally, chocolate is the only answer to the problem, otherwise I am starving every few hours. Well, having just read an article about cancer drugs causing weight, I may have just found the answer. It would appear that the medication triggers the receptors in the brain that stimulate hunger. That explains everything!In other words, the very drug which is designed to prevent the cancer returning is causing me to eat more and, possibly, put on the weight. The WCRF tells me that weight gain could cause cancer, but of course, it will all be my fault!