The latest ruling by NICE (National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence), using its own complex formula, is that the drug Avastin is not cost-effective and therefore cannot be prescribed for NHS patients with advanced bowel cancer, which has spread to other parts of the body. A ten month course of the drug costs £20,800 and, in NICE's estimation, would only extend the patient's life for six weeks.Oncologists, patients and cancer charities have all given their views - most of which have been critical of NICE's decision. I have read numerous case-histories of people whose lives have been extended long past the six weeks - but who had to pay for the drug themselves; I have watched television interviews with oncologists, who say that it is possible, almost immediately, to tell whether or not the drug is going to work for that particular patient - and who object strongly to NICE's implication that doctors have an irresponsible attitute to the cost of treatment and would continue administering medication when it  is not beneficial; I have read the quote from Kate Spall, the founder of The Pamela Northcott fund (which assists cancer patients denied new therapies) who says: "If the oncologist believes that the drug works, it should be used.  It should not be down to NICE to make the decision. This is further evidence that the system isn't working."I understand completely that, if Avastin was to be administered to the 6,500 patients in the UK who might be helped by the drug, it would cost £136 million - way beyond the £50 million interim cancer drug fund which will come into effect in October.I understand, also, from Rob Glynne Jones of Bowel Cancer UK who looked at the UK figures for the survival of patients with advanced bowel cancer and found that, without the use of Avastin, they have an average of 19 months survival - as against 27 months in Europe and the USA, where the cost is the same but the drug is prescribed free of charge.However, what I do not understand is the high price of the drug. Why do the drug companies feel able to charge such extortionate amounts for medication? Yes, research and development of any drug is hugely expensive but is the cost of manufacture really this high?  Is it, perhaps, that the drug companies are exploiting their monopoly?If your oncologist recommends that you should be prescribed a drug which has yet to be approved or refused by NICE, it is possible to apply to your Primary Care Trust for special case funding.  The Pamela Northcott Fund is an organisation which gives a one-to-one service to patients and their carers and will guide you through what, I suspect, is a complicated procedure. Kate Spall has supported, advised and counselled successfully many people, representing them at the PCT or The Health Board Appeal Panel. She believes strongly that everyone has the right be given the medication chosen by the oncologist - and, if you need her to, she will fight for you. Professor Karol Sikora describes her as "an experienced navigator in a sea of bureaucracy and chaos".