Do you live in Birmingham? Are you female? Can you walk 10kms - at midnight - round Birmingham City Centre?The Acorns Children's Hospice, which I mentioned in my last blog post, is looking for 2,000 ladies to take part in its fund-raising midnight walk in Birmingham on Saturday 11 September 2010. It costs £12 to enter and all the money received - from the entrance fees and the walkers' sponsorships - goes directly to the care of hospice patients. The overheads have already been covered by a sponsor. Acorns, in Wythall, Birmingham, supports 600 life-limited and life-threatened children and 800 families, including those who have been bereaved - and is almost entirely funded by public donations.If you would like to join the assembled ladies, there are places still available.  Ring Acorns on 0844 984 0405, email events@acorns.org.uk or log onto www.acorns.org.uk/midnightwalk .Happily, Acorns reckons that the amount of money lost to the Lithuanian gang - who, as I wrote before, distributed fake bags carrying the Acorns logo - was not as much as £1,000,000, which is just as well because that is the figure for the much-needed income it derives annually from its charity shops. This was a despicable and calculating act by the gang, which resulted in a scarcity of clothes for Acorns' shops. Fortunately, the hospice was not defeated and has been able to continue to provide the specialist care and support upon which so many children and their families rely.My blog post produced numerous emails and comments and introduced me to two organisations -  www.charityshops.org.uk and www.charitybags.org.uk - both of whom were anxious to clarify the situation on "Clothes Aid".  Apparently, this organisation is not a charity in its own right. It is a collection company, which donates to charity a percentage of the money raised by the sale of the clothes collected.I suspect more of us will now think twice before filling the charity bag which comes through the door. This would be a great shame because I am told that, when it works properly, this method of raising money is most advantageous. I am sure charityshops.org and charitybags.org will be keeping a very close eye on the situation - with the help of the BBC and the police.