For some years Macmillan Cancer Support has been running a campaign to "boot out" car parking charges for cancer patients at hospitals in the UK. They have been totally successful in Wales - parking has been free since April 2008 and hospital trusts with external car park contracts in place will fall into line by 2011. In Scotland they have had a similar success - apart from three PFI (Private Finance Initiative) hospitals in Dundee, Edinburgh and Glasgow.Not so in England.As a supporter of Macmillan, I have just completed an on-line email which will  be sent automatically to my MP asking for her support. I have written before about the length of journeys some people find themselves making - over 100 miles a day, which results in a hefty petrol bill - because we have so few radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatment centres. Now I learn from Macmillan that patients in England are still having to pay to park their cars while they undergo treatment. Why has England not agreed to quash these payments for cancer patients?I have also discovered that, in some areas, there are discounts on parking available but - unless you ask, no one tells you. Twelve per cent of patients, who replied to a Macmillan survey, said they only found out about these discounts after they had finished their treatment. Surely this information should be given routinely to every patient before they come to the hospital to begin their course of treatment. Once again, I fear this is yet another example of information which never finds its way to the patient.I cannot understand why it is that, with the number of managers in the NHS - more managers than beds, I understand, who are doing what except earning large salaries? - no one seems able to put together a well-produced, clear package of information for the patient. It is not difficult to work out what is needed. People tell me they have received a couple of badly photocopied pages which are meant to carry an explanation of treatment and that is all. Clearly, no practical information whatsoever. Cancer patients - and, indeed, all patients - must be treated with respect and given every possible support.Hospitals are saving money by treating more and more cancer patients as day cases - yet the management charges these people for parking and cynically lines its own coffers. Is there a chief executive of an NHS trust in England who might like to comment?One 73 year old gentlemen said: "My wife was being treated for myeloma. It was a 70 mile round trip and then about £40 a week in parking charges. There was no way of knowing what you were going to pay as prices weren't on display. You only found out when you went through the exit barrier. I later learned that I could have paid a reduced rate, but no one told me about this."I bet no one offered to reimburse him either.Please visit http://www.macmillan.org.uk and join the campaign.