Have you had a plastic bag delivered to your door, into which you are invited to place unwanted items of clothing? Have you ever done so, or have you held back because you felt uneasy as to where the clothes were actually going, despite the fact that the bag carried the logo of a charity?In 2005 a reporter from BBC South East conducted an undercover operation and traced the contents of these bags, not to a registered UK charity - as it said on the bags - but to Lithuania. Between then and now there have been several other news stories about similar scams and a genuine charity called Clothes Aid - who collected and sold clothes and then donated the money to various hospitals - complained that their bags were being collected by gangs before their Clothes Aid vans can get there.In the West Midlands, fake collection bags, carrying the logo for the Acorns Children's Hospice Trust, were distributed. The Trust received nothing but estimates it lost £1,000,000 and ran out of clothes to sell in their charity shops. One million pounds will fund a 10-bed hospice for nine months.Yesterday the BBC carried another story from BBC South East. Yet more fake bags are being distributed but, this time, they carry the message "In support of Breakthrough Breast Cancer" and the pink ribbon logo. The reporting team challenged the men collecting the filled bags, who told them that the contents of the bags would be going back to Lithuania but that Breakthrough Breast Cancer was receiving a "significant chunk" of the money made from the sale of the clothes.It would seem they are liars. Breakthrough has not seen a single penny and those working for the charity are appalled and disheartened that this could happen.Apart from the disgusting nature of these cynical gangs, is this not fraud and theft? Are these people not criminals? The only things that should be going back to Lithuania are the people involved in this plot. I hope the BBC will continue to monitor these collection gangs.The reporter tells us that these fake bags are being distributed country-wide so please be aware. Take your clothes to a charity shop and leave the bags empty - just in case.