I was sitting at Wimbledon last Thursday, watching the Ladies' Semi Finals. It was a hot and sunny afternoon and my eye was drawn to the photographers in their dug-out beside the court. Not enough of them were wearing hats and there was one gentleman photographer whose bald pate was exposed to the sun for the entire afternoon. This is not to be recommended. Even if a high factor sun cream has been applied, it is not enough to prevent the sun damaging the skin and causing cancer.Children of my generation ran around in the sun with no sun cream to protect our skin, simply because our parents had not been educated to understand the dangers involved. Consequently, as adults, many of us have visited the dermatologist more than once to have moles and growths removed - all caused by the sun in our childhood.While there is an unresolved debate as to whether or not sun cream totally prevents skin cancer, there is no dispute that it does shield the skin from the harmful rays of the sun - particularly between the hours of 12 and 3, when the sun is at its most powerful. Children's skin is so much more delicate and parents need to be vigilant and apply sunscreen lotion regularly throughout the day - especially if the child is near water. It is also important to make sure a sun hat, with a brim and cover for the back of the neck, is worn at all times.With the abundance of advice available, it seems extraordinary that a primary school in Wales has banned children from bringing sun cream into school. The Head Teacher considers that it is "sufficient to apply suncream before leaving for school" - but the effects of the cream last for two hours only. The school may offer shaded areas but what happens during the sports lessons? In Australia children learn from a very young age how to use sunscreen and it is a natural part of their lives. In the UK we cannot issue sun awareness guidelines and then prevent the children from adhering to them.I recommend logging onto the www.cancerhelp.org.uk, which carries a good deal of useful information about prevention of skin cancer.Should you be concerned about a lesion of any kind on your skin, go immediately to your GP and ask for a referral to a dermatologist.  Be cautious about using the private skin clinics springing up in the UK. If you do decide to use one for convenience and speed -  firstly, make sure you obtain, from your GP, the exact nature of the problem and secondly, try to ensure that the equipment and method of treatment is correct for your needs.I would be interested to hear if anyone has experienced one of these clinics and how the prices compare to those of a private dermatologist. If you would rather comment in confidence, I can be emailed on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk