Update: This just in: Two days after demolition began, Preservation Dallas has finally released a statement concerning the what it refers to as "the wanton destruction by the Headington Companies."The demolition of a 129-year-old Romanesque Revival building in downtown Dallas Sunday set off a lot of questions on Facebook that are continuing today. Many of the questions are about the process that proceeds destroying old buildings that may not boast local historic designations but that are nonetheless important parts of our city's past.All the while, the wrecking ball continued to swing — as it apparently will through tomorrow — to make room for more high-end retail related to The Joule's redevelopment. The buildings that came down Monday date back to 1911. Also on the demolition list is 1615 Main Street, according to records posted yesterday by Robert Wilonsky.Again, these buildings have no official preservation protection. Which seems particularly sad in the case of 1615 Main Street, thought to be one of the best of downtown's historic structures.As so what are the city's demolition procedures for notifying citizens when a building is going to be demolished especially one over 100 years old?Chief Building Official Larry Holmes' answer was short and not sweet: "There is no requirement in the ordinance for notification of citizens of a demolition."Here's what's wrong with that answer: Dallas has black eyes galore when it comes to economic development trampling over anything that gets in its way — whether that be in downtown or in the Trinity Forest. While City Hall gets a lot of stuff right in this regard, too often, its attitude — when faced with any back talk — can be summed up a remark  city council member Carolyn Davis uttered just yesterday. My head exploded when I read her   response to the debacle of downed trees and disturbed habitats created by construction "needs":The city "could have done things better" in its forest, Davis said. But "if the only thing we can point at is a pond and some trees, then, my God, we've done extremely well."Now back to Larry Holmes' remark about what the city's obligations are regarding demolitions. Given that permits must be filed for demolitions, how about if the city went the extra mile to inform people of what's going on and why. Perhaps demolition was the right answer, but how about a more public discussion before the fact.I'll let Facebook poster Dallas May have the last word here. He made good, nuanced points about the demolition and The Joule yesterday. He was in no way defending this week's demolition and, in fact noted,  "In Dallas, traditionally we have taken a very liberal stance on the issue, protecting very few buildings." He continued with this common sense notion: "But many cities take the far opposite stance and seriously hinder their own economic development in the name of preservation. San Francisco is a great example. Sure it's great to visit and beautiful for photographs, but just try getting a reasonably priced apartment there."That's a discussion I wish we could have had before the wrecking ball swung Sunday.