During a recent telephone conversation with a family friend, he asked me how I was doing since the end of my breast cancer treatment. I reassured him that all seems to be going according to plan and, in July, I will have my final three-monthly check-up - after which, if all goes well, I will be on six-monthly appointments.He listened carefully and then said: "I have just been diagnosed with breast cancer too."Men can develop breast cancer in the same way as women - there are 300 cases diagnosed in the UK each year - but, clearly, it is much rarer and I was saddened to have to add my friend to my ever-growing list of fellow breast cancer sufferers, as the first male. He lives in Somerset and will be travelling to London for surgery and treatment - quite an undertaking for a gentleman in his 70s.Three quarters of the cases of male breast cancer occur in men over the age of 60 and, almost always, the cancer is not detected at an early stage. Why? Men will probably not like my answer! On the whole, men are not nearly as good as women at understanding how their bodies work or noticing subtle changes. Consequently, they tend to visit their GP only when the symptoms are more obvious and severe - a large chest lump, bleeding from the nipple or noticeable skin abnormalities. I suspect, also, men are less likely to treat with suspicion anything in that area of their body for three reasons - cases of male breast cancer are few, people are unaware that men's breast tissue is similar to that of women and there is little publicity attached to the disease.The Institute of Cancer Research and Breakthrough Breast Cancer joined forces in 2007 to begin a major Male Breast Cancer Study. It will take five years to collect the data from 1,000 cases and 1,000 controls - aged 18-79.  The study has three aims: firstly, to investigate the genetic, environmental and behavioural causes of breast cancer in men; secondly, to investigate the risk of breast cancer in female relatives of men with the disease; and, thirdly, to investigate the pathology of male breast cancers in order to compare the disease with that in women - which must be easier without menstrual factors and child-bearing issues.We hope that in 2012 the results might give us some answers and help us understand better the causes of breast cancer in both sexes.So - gentlemen - please check yourselves in exactly the same way as women do and, if you are concerned about a lump or a rash, a change in direction of or discharge from the nipple, a puckering or dimpling of the skin on the chest, go immediately to your GP. The same techniques are used to diagnose and treat male breast cancer: surgery, chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy, biological therapy and hormone therapy. The one big difference is that male patients respond much better to hormone therapy than do women.  Most importantly - the earlier the cancer is diagnosed, the better the result for the patient.I would be very interested to hear from anyone with experience of male breast cancer - either personally or if you have a partner, a family member or a friend who is undergoing diagnosis or treatment. We need to try and raise awareness of this form of the disease.Please email me - in total confidence - at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk