A friend of mine - whose partner has just died after fighting cancer for ten years - caught the end of an interview on the radio with a cancer specialist. I am not sure who the speaker was but, listening to my friend's description of the interview, I suspect she ran one of the large cancer research charities.The speaker insisted that people must stop referring to cancer as a "battle" and resign themselves to accepting its inevitability. I can only assume that this lady has not suffered from any form of cancer or had any family or friends develop the disease. She could not be more wrong. If she really thinks this, then to take it to its logical conclusion, why is she working in research? Does she think we should bow our heads and give up before we have even tried to fight?Once you have been diagnosed with cancer - of any kind - life needs to become a battle. In fact, my consultant told me not to try and put the diagnosis to the back of my mind but to keep the cancer firmly in front of me. That way it is easier to visualise and fight.Some people construct a battle plan, enlisting the help of therapists of all kinds, nutritionists, family, friends and medical professionals who are prepared to work with the patient's plan. Each of us must choose the ingredients of our own individual plan. It all comes down to what we believe in and who we trust to support us. Not only do we need our plan to offer hope of curing or, at best, halting the cancer but - if you choose the conventional medicine - remember there are many wonderful complementary therapies to include, which offer great alleviation of symptoms and side effects, thus helping to strengthen mind and body for the fight. Interestingly, therapists tell me that many younger people - especially those with breast cancer - are refusing adjuvant medical treatment, believing that the side effects are too damaging, and are putting all their hope and trust in complementary therapies.Whichever route you choose - the conventional medical approach of surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy; complementary therapies on their own; or a mixture of the two - it is going to be a battle and for someone, especially a cancer doctor, to deny that fact is to undermine our courage. There may have been many cancer sufferers listening, alone, to the programme, who were made to feel they were approaching their condition the wrong way. If you were one of these listeners, please be reassured: you are right to summon up your courage and engage the battle. By doing so you are showing great bravery and strength.I do begin to wonder on what planet some of these experts live.