Just before I began my six weeks of radiotherapy, I picked the brains of two friends, who had undergone the same course of treatment. Did they have any suggestions for me?Both of them spoke about the discomfort of the skin, as the treatment took its toll. It had not been suggested to either of them that some kind of salve might help and nothing was provided by the hospitals. Sue, who is a psychologist, was treated seven years ago. She used logic and applied after-sun lotion. Meg is an actress, heavily into complementary therapies, who was treated more recently. She told me she raced to the bathroom immediately she left the machine and applied liberal amounts of aloe vera gel. Sue suffered considerable reddening, some blistering and soreness but Meg's aloe vera worked wonders.Before I had a chance to suggest to the nurses that I was going to use my newly purchased gel, they gave me a marvellously effective mixture of  aloe vera gel, combined with eight drops of essential skin oils - both organic and manufactured in Australia. I was told to apply the gel three times a day to the treated area and, although my skin reddened slightly, it never became burnt or too painful and I was able to wear my chosen outfit for my son's wedding (four days after the last radiotherapy session). Three times a day may seem like a full-time job but I thoroughly recommend taking the time and trouble - and remember to keep the affected area out of the sun.I was also extremely lucky to have the advice of a beauty editor friend of mine, who suggested the A'kin range of organic shampoos, conditioners and shower gels, also from Australia. When your skin is feeling fragile - after either radio or chemotherapy - it is best to be wary of what you use. Your body has had enough chemicals for a while. Organic products are gentle and free of parabens and other irritants.Ladies - my same beauty source has just told me that there is a new French organic range of make-up, not nearly as expensive as most products currently on the market and available at Boots. It is called UNE. I am using the products and, so far, they are working well for me. Of course these are not the only organic products on the market. There are many others, so experiment and keep the chemicals at bay.I would be interested to know how many hospitals offer aloe vera gel to their patients - or, at least, recommend you buy your own. It certainly saved my skin.