Thanks to the generosity of The Yachts of Seabourn, last Saturday the Breast Cancer Haven held its 10th anniversary dinner aboard Seabourn's newest yacht, The Sojurn.  Following a fun evening we hope the charity will be well on its way to raising a very welcome six-figure sum. This was a really good example of the corporate world getting behind charities - for everybody's benefit - and Seabourn sincere gratitude.During the evening, I met several women who had experienced breast cancer - either themselves, or through family and friends - and, listening to their stories, I realised again just how little knowledge of the subject we all have before the diagnosis is made.  Consequently, very few people have the ability to ask pertinent questions, not only about surgery and treatment but about dealing with family issues. When should I tell the children?  What should I tell the children? How will the treatment affect my life generally?Some hospitals have excellent breast cancer nurses who are there to help with exactly those issues but, from what I learned last Saturday, this is simply not true of every cancer centre.  I am unconvinced that handing the patient a leaflet to read at home, just after breast cancer has been diagnosed, is of any help at all.  At that moment in your life you are not in a fit state to read and absorb the information. You need to be able to speak to a person, experienced in breast cancer treatment, once the reality of the diagnosis has hit home. At that point, hundreds of questions come flooding into your mind and they need answering - however trivial they may seem to be.The same applies, of course, to chemotherapy and radiotherapy centres.  I remember well my first visit to the radiotherapy department when I was handed a "pack" of information, while a very charming technician explained the procedure.  I found myself  biting back tears because my mind just could not accept all the details at that moment, particularly as the machine looked so intimidating in the picture.  It proved not to be nearly such a daunting experience as I was expecting.Spire Healthcare are adding radiotherapy machines to some of their private hospitals outside London to which NHS patients will have access.  Recently I was asked to meet their CEO and discuss with him my experiences.  Spire is going to produce a DVD to explain the radiotherapy and chemotherapy  procedures, which the patient can watch before beginning the treatment. These new radiotherapy machines will not only be state-of-the-art, but will mean patients' journey time to the centre will be shorter.  All good news.If you have just been diagnosed, or are about to start treatment and you have questions which I might be able to help with, or experiences (good or bad) you would like to share, I welcome emails to my Telegraph email address: judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.