Breast cancer patients who need daily radiotherapy usually require three to six weeks of treatment, which entails a great deal of time and travel.  I have already touched on the subject of those women who have to make the decision between travelling 120 miles each day or having a mastectomy.  There is a possibility that, in the future, if the breast cancer is found early enough, a single shot of radiotherapy will be given during the surgical procedure.  The shot will take half an hour but that will be all.  The researchers say it is not better than current treatment but that it is, at the very least, an equivalent. Operating theatre time is at a premium but an extra half hour there will free up more time for the radiotherapy units. So, those patients whose cancers are not eligible for the treatment can be moved up the waiting lists - and their radiotherapy can be started sooner.Apparently,this single dose treatment is already in use in the USA and is proving safe and effective.  I imagine most people would opt for this solution - I would certainly have done so  - but in the UK, as always, we will have to wait for NICE's verdict.The answers I have received from the four Ministries of Health - England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales - seem to imply that patient transport is offered to everyone who requires treatment. So that is acceptable, is it?  It still means the whole day is spent travelling to and from the hospital. It was not so much the cost I was concerned about but the impracticality of travelling 160 miles each day. A few hospitals offer a hotel floor on which patients can stay - but for six weeks? We all try and continue our lives as best we can during the treatment but that would make it impossible for all sorts of reasons.What we really need is for GPs to refer women - and men - to the consultant with much greater speed.  At the weekend I was visiting friends who live in a small market town. Margaret is one of five of my friends who has fought breast cancer. She told me that the local GP had refused to refer two women - one aged 26 and one aged 49 - telling the first one it could not be cancer and telling the second one it was a blocked milk duct. Wrong on both counts. When, eventually, they were seen by the consultant, both had full-blown cancer. I have heard far too many similar stores. It is not good enough. No self-referral is possible.Primary Care Trusts, wake up! If the cancer is caught early it can be cured with less surgery and treatment. Then your financial resources can be used elsewhere. Let GPs refer as often as they need to and GPs, please learn that the number of young women who develop breast cancer is growing. Do not dismiss them so readily.