If the research goes according to plan, this country's vaccination programme looks set to include a jab to prevent breast cancer. Dr Vincent Tuohy, an immunologist at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, has discovered that a protein called alpha-lactalbumin is present in up to 70 per cent of breast cancer tumours - and he believes that this estimate might be on the low side.Rather than target the cancer cells in the tumour, he has looked at the problem from a different angle and produced a vaccine which stimulates the immune system to destroy the protein.There are other centres doing similar work. Dr Leatham, at University College London, who is researching for the charity Against Breast Cancer, has discovered that breast cancer patients have a low level of natural immunity and so their immune systems needs a boost. As yet, no vaccine has been produced in the UK but it is reassuring to hear that many people are thinking along the same lines.There would appear to be one problem.  Alpha-lactalbumin is also found in the milk of women who are breast-feeding, which means that, if the woman has been vaccinated, it will not be possible for her to breast-feed because the immune system will combat the protein.  Nothing in medicine is ever straightforward - there are always choices to be made - but, at least, the prospect of eliminating breast cancer is now a real possibility.This vaccine will be used on young women - particularly those who have a family history of breast cancer - and those over the age of 40, when the cancer is more likely to develop but when they are less likely to be breastfeeding. It is hoped, too, that the vaccine will be able to shrink tumours - again, as immune system targets the protein.This is the first time we have been offered prevention and treatment from the same source.  It has to be good news, especially for the growing number of young women whose breast cancers tend to be more aggressive.  At the moment, most GPs are reluctant to refer a young woman for a mammogram and the way our medical system is arranged means that it is not possible to self-refer.  Consequently, it is often too late for the young patient to escape drastic surgery and chemotherapy.Of course, no one must think that this vaccine will take the place of a healthy diet, exercising and not overdoing the alcohol. The same applies for people who take statins to keep their cholesterol levels down, but assume they can continue eating all the cholesterol-raising foods. Nothing is as simple as that.Something else occurs to me. Men also develop breast cancer. I wonder - will they be included in the vaccination programme? Perhaps someone will let me know the answer.