The best part of my job continues to be leading and writing for our "Bridging Dallas' North-South Gap" effort, which next month will mark seven years of trying to erase the economic and quality-of-life disparities between the southern and northern portions of our city.In my new job as an editorial writer, I'll have more time to focus on "the Gap project." So, as we say in news-writing, I don't need to throw "the entire kitchen sink" into today's Gap-related post. Consider this just the start of the conversation as we continue to try to balance bringing readers the victories as well as the challenges in our city.I had the privilege yesterday to meet with Wynnewood Hills resident Chequan Lewis, an Associate at Baker Botts LLP. You may recall his Viewpoints column from last month, "My southern Dallas speaks for itself."  Over lunch, he and I continued the conversation begun in that column. (Rudy Bush first wrote about Lewis here.)Lewis' point is that too often people just don't get that southern Dallas is, first and foremost, "home" to many residents who come in all shapes and sizes. Southern Dallas is made up of neighborhoods where people live, work and play just like in neighborhoods all over North Texas. Sometimes, I fear, in our attempts to advocate for economic justice that we inadvertently affirm in the minds of many that the southern half of our city is a monolith of need — when that couldn't be farther from the truth.That's the No. 1 message that Chequan Lewis, who is 31, and other young informal leaders in his circle would like to drive home. He talked passionately about the diversity and the natural beauty of his neighborhood. He talked of acquaintances who find that the most sensible personal business/financial decision they can make is to buy a home in southern Dallas (I pulled this one at random so you could see for yourself). And he noted that on issues such as public schools, the southern half of the city is no worse off than the northern.Lewis believes in "stacking victories" by going after wins around the edges of prior successes in his part of the city. He is passionate about ways to connect successful neighborhoods such as Wynnewood North and Wynnewood Hills. And he thinks far more attention needs to be focused on the Southern Gateway project.Lewis and his wife, Whitney Lewis, an associate counsel at Carlson Capital, L.P., put in long hours on the job. But they are also deeply involved in the community, for instance with volunteer work at Irma Rangel Young Women's Leadership School and Dorsey elementary. Lewis downplays any "specialness" about the two of them — he says just talk to people in the PTAs and neighborhood associations throughout his part of town and you'll find "lots of people just like us."He says that one of the questions he gets asked a lot as he "bridges the gap" in understanding is "So how many neighborhoods are there in southern Dallas like the one you live in?" His answer: "More than you think."Rest assured that we won't back off advocating for those southern Dallas neighborhoods in dire need of help. But it's critical that we don't lose sight of the points Lewis makes: 1) pockets of poverty abut high-quality-of-life neighborhoods all over our city and 2) prospective homeowners would be well-served to look south if they want to find some of the most beautiful and affordable neighborhoods our city has to offer.Bottom line: It's critical that our project balance the victories with the challenges.I'll end with words that we wrote in the first editorial that kicked off the "Gap" project — Oct. 28, 2007. That's so long ago that I can't even find the editorial online, but here's a copy from our archives. The headline — challenge assumptions about southern Dallas — is the same message Lewis and all of us who care about southern Dallas want to deliver:Publication Date: October 28, 2007Many northern residents would be content to live out their lives without ever venturing into the half of Dallas south of the Trinity and I-30. The widespread assumption is that crime there is rampant, gangs rule the streets and crack houses abound.Last week's presentation of the 2007 Wholeness Index challenges much of what we think is true about our city and its north-south imbalance. The image conveyed by the J. McDonald Williams Institute is far from rosy. We've got some major problems to overcome - problems left largely neglected for decades and allowed to fester. But we've also got many reasons for hope.The Williams Institute compiled the index using statistics in 12 quality-of-life areas, such as school performance, crime rates and income distribution. Neighborhoods receive scores from 1 to 100 in each area. The lower the score, the wider the disparity.This year's index shows that the north-south gap still exists but is narrowing in some key areas. Schools in parts of the south are catching up in student retention rates, SAT scores and graduation rates. More middle-class homes are becoming available. Voters are becoming more active. On the negative side, life expectancy is lower for southern residents.The index also busts a major myth: that South Dallas has the worst crime. In fact, northwest Dallas is the area with the highest block crime rate - 33 percent higher than the rest of the city.If anything, the index dispels the idea that a disparate conglomeration of neighborhoods, comprising roughly half the area of Dallas, somehow deserves to be lumped together as the "southern sector." The negative image this label conjures suggests it's time to steer toward a new way of thinking about a region that's anything but uniform racially, economically and geographically.Anyone looking out on Dallas from the limestone cliffs of Ledbetter Hills - where sprawling, upper-income homes are being constructed alongside affordable cottages in the new Capella Park subdivision - knows there's a huge difference between it and Fair Park. Anyone riding horses on the green-pastured dude ranch just south of the University of North Texas-Dallas campus would never think of lumping such a serene atmosphere together with that of, say, the check-cashing and pawn shops along Jefferson Boulevard.We also need to bust the myth that the north-south gap is being adequately addressed by our city's political and business leaders. It's been far too comfortable for them to look the other way, and that's about to change.To help Dallas decision-makers stay focused over the weeks and months ahead, our editorial board will be identifying key areas requiring attention, such as drugs, race relations, employment, education, retail development, housing and even broken sidewalks and stray dogs. We'll look at the neighborhoods making progress and ask how they're doing it. We'll examine the experiences of other cities to see how they've tackled similar problems.Anyone who wants to see Dallas become more vibrant and prosperous should understand that it won't happen when half the city shuns the other half. The time has come to close the gap.