I first heard of beta-blockers many years ago when I worked with a violinist who suffered most terribly from stage fright. The condition had developed to such a degree that he was beginning to be unable to perform.  At the suggestion of his doctor he began to take a course of this medication, which blocks the stress hormones in the body - and, hey, presto, he was cured.  I don't know what happened to him later in his life but, at that point, the drug certainly saved his career.  Now I read that this medication may be used to prevent the spread of breast cancer by blocking the same stress hormones which are found in many breast tumours.I wonder if Sir James Black, the Nobel Prize winner and inventor of beta-blockers, knew of this possibility before he died in March of this year?  It is interesting to read in his obituary that, in the 1970's, he could not find enough funding for his research, so was forced to leave University College London and take his work to the commercial sector.How the climate has changed.  Today, vast amounts of work is enabled in university laboratories and charity research centres because of the dedicated donations from corporations of all sorts - often driven by their staff, who want to support a favourite charity.For instance, at UCLA, University of California, Professor Dennis Salmon developed the "magic bullet" drug Herceptin, to treat patients with the HER2+ form of breast cancer.  His research was sponsored by the beauty company Revlon and, in the UK, a third of the money needed to build Breakthrough Breast Cancer's research centre was provided by Avon - another beauty and cosmetics company.With so little money availabe from government for medical research, we have to rely on the private sector to stump up the required funding - and with the cuts threatened by all the political parties, I suppose there is no chance of the situation changing in the near future.P.S. I wrote of my friend's son running in the London Marathon.  He completed the course in 3 hours and 50 minutes, raising over £2,000 for Breakthrough Breast Cancer.  £47 million is raised each year by the event for the myriad of different charities in the UK.Once you become aware of fundraising, you spot charity collecting boxes everywhere - at the checkout in shops, the reception area in offices and on the bar in pubs.  Once you have given your donation you can take an attractive pin for your jacket - at which point I am always reminded of Tony Hancock in The Blood Donor who said of his suits "my lapels are always the first things to go"!