We are now well into the election campaign and it is time to challenge candidates about their plans to improve and safeguard cancer services in general - but particularly those affecting breast cancer patients.Following on from the controversy over Labour's mail-shot to 250,000 breast cancer patients, we have all received a letter from the NHS describing the new policy for storing and managing our health records. Do we want an SCR (a Summary Care Record), "which will be available to people providing you with care anywhere in England."? It sounds good but who else will be able to access our notes?It seems that, in order to log onto your record, health care staff must have an NHS Smartcard with a chip and pass-code - but we all know how easy it is for credit cards to be cloned. How can we be sure that personal medical notes will not end up in the hands of politicians?Opting for a mastectomy because the alternative means driving 160 miles a day to the nearest radiotherapy centre is an appalling choice for a woman to make. The cost of petrol, never mind the exhaustion of driving that distance, must play a part in the decision. Search out the candidates in your area and ask them some blunt questions, such as: what proposals are being offered to open more local centres for radiotherapy treatment? Not just for breast cancer patients but all those with a form of cancer which will respond to radiotherapy?
In the centres that do exist, the quality of care for breast cancer patients undergoing treatment varies. Some places are wonderful but others fall short in cleanliness, the quality of care and, for radiotherapy patients, the age and reliability of the delicate and sophisticated machines.  At one of the London hospitals, the machines treat over 50 patients a day and the staff tell me they do not even have time to say "hello" to each patient. What plans are there to upgrade the treatment centres?Martina Navratilova has just been diagnosed with breast cancer.  She says that she knows she was foolish and missed several annual appointments.  Annual?  In the UK women over the age of 50 are offered a mammogram every three years. Are there any plans to implement more regular screening?These are all important questions for election time, even before we start talking about other preventative measures, research and aftercare.There is never a better time than now to speak up for the hundreds and thousands of people who live in the shadow of cancer.