"Let's ban fraternities," Jessica Valenti, a daily columnist for the Guardian US and author of four books on feminism, politics and culture, writes today.My answer: No — although I understand why her idea is, at first read, a comforting one to many of us. But I say no for the same reason that, while conflicted, I oppose Highland Park ISD's decision to put certain books on a not-approved list.In both cases, a ban might feel good and cause us to believe we are "fixing something" — but it's actually nothing but a symbolic, and mostly empty, gesture.Valenti builds her argument around stats that indicate that men who join fraternities are three times more likely to rape. The numbers come from this study by the founder and national president of One in Four, a public nonprofit rape prevention organization. Beyond the numbers, Valenti's column persuasively lays out just how toxic and dangerous the atmosphere is on many American universities. I hear many of the same kinds of stories from college students around me.I'm no fan of fraternities and sororities — way too exclusionary in most cases. But ban fraternities and you really think the attitudes toward women, the dangers of alcohol and other drugs, and all the other risky behavior that can lead to rape and other sexual assault just — poof — disappears?Same argument with the HPISD decision, which colleague Nicole Stockdale addresses here (and don't overlook reading the full essay she excerpts): Students way younger than high school age are being introduced to sex, violence, dysfunction and all sorts of other stuff that we as parents might have wanted to prepare them for before they encounter it outside the home. Anyone who thinks that by preventing their children from reading those books, they will shelter them from those topics is living in a dream world. They learned most of it already — in a parking lot at the local movie theater.Sounds corny but the solution to all of this is not BANNING anything. The solution is teaching our children, from a young age, to have the awareness of what the often-overwhelming world can throw at them ... and that they have an obligation to take care of themselves at all costs. That's a daunting assignment and we all fall short of delivering it often enough. But in the end, that's the best armor we can try to help our young people build around themselves for self-protection.