Two years ago - in my late 50s - I was diagnosed with breast cancer and joined the ranks of the other 45,000 women and 300 men who develop the disease every year in the UK. I am married, with two children and three stepchildren.Following the diagnosis I had surgery and radiotherapy and my recovery - having regular checks and taking tamoxifen daily for five years - is going according to plan.After the treatment was finished, I found enormous comfort and support at The London Breast Cancer Haven in Fulham. There are two others in the UK - in Hereford and Leeds - and The Havens produce a DVD which can be played at home, for those who cannot reach the centres.However, having enjoyed such a special experience at The Haven, I was surprised to find that so few people had heard of the Havens, because their various medical professionals were unaware that these sanctuaries existed. So, I put pen to paper - or, rather, fingers to keyboard - and wrote an article describing the Havens, their work and their belief that no-one should have to face Breast Cancer alone.The Daily Telegraph published my piece on March 1. If you read the piece you might like to know what happened next. That morning the Havens' switchboards were inundated with calls for help, people arrived at the doors in desperate need of support and the Havens' cookery book sold out by lunchtime. The response was amazing. Clearly, there is a great need for proper focus on this subject.I was blessed with a wonderful consultant, my treatment went smoothly and I had assumed the experience was the same for everyone. Sadly, this is not so. From the many emails and telephone calls I received, I was horrified to discover that I was the lucky one.One lady emailed me to tell me that ,as there were no radiotherapy machines close to where she lived, she was about to begin driving 75 miles a day to the nearest centre. I was then appalled to hear that, in Wales - and, who know, maybe in other parts of the UK - too many women, who only need a lumpectomy and radiotherapy, are opting for mastectomies rather than drive 160 miles each day for five or six weeks to the nearest radiotherapy centre. This is an unacceptable state of affairs. In closing the smaller centres, did no one consider the patients? Apart from anything else, we now have the price of petrol at a record high and that amount of mileage will take its toll on the family purse, already pressurised by the economic situation.Other people raised issues which definitely need a wider audience - from the questionable screening programme to the withdrawal, by the manufacturers, of the original form of tamoxifen, Nolvadex D, which carried far fewer side effects. It cost £7 a packet more than the generic form, so the Government decreed that the generic form only should be prescribed.Reflecting on all these issues and more, it seemed a natural progression to write a blog - and so it was born.I must stress that this blog will not be a substitute for proper medical advice. What I hope to do is to try and strip out the real, practical help from the unproven and unsubstantiated claims.  Not a day goes by without some story pertaining to breast cancer. New research throws up many and varied causes. Studies give us diverse suggestions - "a glass of red wine a day could prevent breast cancer"; "three cups of tea a day could prevent breast cancer"; "taking multi-vitamins could cause breast cancer". We are confused by the announcement from Martina Navratilova that she has breast cancer. Yes, she missed having her mammograms but surely she must be one of the fittest and healthiest women in the world - and yet she did not escape.I hope this blog will be a platform on which we can stand all the issues pertaining to breast cancer and what better time than now, with the General Election just ahead of us?In my next post I will raise questions that we all can - and must - ask our election candidates to answer. We need to know each party's policies on early diagnosis, speedy treatment and proper aftercare. It is essential that we keep the subject standing firmly on our platform and make sure that the would-be Members of Parliament hear our voice.