Judging by your response to my post about the lack of district nurses and health visitors, it seems that we have another example of a "postcode lottery". Some more rural parts of the country seem to be well served. Perhaps it is just the big cities where there is a paucity of these services. Thank you for all your comments and emails. I would be very interested to hear what Andrew Lansley has to say about the Coalition's policy for the future of home nursing.Jalite - Are you sure your "going home bag" from hospital was worth £4,000? What on earth was in it? You seem to imply that not all of it was needed. If so, and this is an accurate total, it shows an extremely cavalier attitude to the NHS's bank balance by hospital workers.Maybe if the NHS were a little more careful with its funds, the Government might be inspired to fulfil its election pledge, which promised a £200 million fund for cancer drugs. If you remember, the fund was to pay for any medication the consultant recommended for the patient - even if it had not been licensed for the specific disease - and would mean that patients would not have to wait on the vagaries of NICE. Now, it seems, that patients will have to wait until April 2011 for this fund to open. This delay will be too long for some patients, who will have the prospect of new medication dangled in front of them but without the time left for the consultant to precribe it.I wonder if we can believe that the kitty will hold £200 million. Will it join other medical services and be cut?Although NICE denies rejecting nine drugs in the past few months, it admits that it has issued nine guidelines to reject the drugs. Doesn't that mean the same result in the end? I do not understand how NICE justifies rejecting any drugs - surely this is thwarting  the Coalition Government's policy. David Cameron's announcement was very clear, but now it seems that Europe will have the benefit of cancer drugs which we will be denied. What do you think?We have decided to run some "Ask Judith" posts. So - if you have any questions pertaining to self-help, support groups, complementary therapies, diet, beauty aids, wig centres, advice books, exercise and movement or cancer centres of excellence or anything else, please feel free to email me at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk and I will do my best to find an answer for you. Obviously, I cannot answer any medical questions, but I can suggest questions you might like to ask your doctors.