Or would they approve it again, just as voters did in November 2007?In case you don't remember, a little more than 15 percent of Dallas residents went to the polls seven years ago and defeated the anti-toll-road Prop 1 by a vote 53 percent to 47 percent.It's understandable that folks who still have scars from that 2007 battle often fall back on that election to say "been there, done that."I'm not ready to throw in the towel — especially if it means funds set aside for the road could be put to use elsewhere. So I'll start the week by giving a little love to this Saturday blog post by Michael Lindenberger, in which he puts into perspective the last seven years of the Trinity toll road saga.Lindenberger's post is based partly on some very good reporting by DMNer Brandon Formby, who has recently written about the Trinity road making a list of "Highway Boondoggles" as well as laying out Michael Morris's argument of why the road doesn't belong on the boondoggles list.What do we learn from the latest back and forth? Now that Morris's organization's traffic projections show the road won't substantially improve traffic congestion in the corridor, he's going out onto some increasingly skinny branches.  He says the toll road will improve things on "several arterial streets" and spur economic development in West Dallas and Oak Cliff.Seven years ago, Lindenberger was following this story as a DMN reporter. So I trust his memory when he says that when Michael Morris made his arguments for the road, economic development was hardly mentioned. Here's Lindenberger's take:I went back and looked at the arguments he {Michael Morris] gave back in 2007. That's when Morris asked for a special vote from the Regional Transportation Council to go on the road as a full-throated policy advocate for the toll road. He took with him a top 10 list of why the road must be built to meetings of voters and business folks all over the city. It was, quite literally, Michael Morris's toll road show. He felt that strongly about it.On that list of 10 reasons, economic development was mentioned so scantly, I almost missed it altogether. Way down on No. 9, he notes that taken together the flood safety of the improved levees, the beautiful parks and lakes that are part of the overall plan and, yes, the mobility promised by the toll road would = economic development for Dallas.I'd encourage readers to look at Morris's arguments in Formby's most recent story and decide for yourself what you think of those points. I was particularly struck by this quote: "We build transportation systems," Morris said. "You guys look at them as individual projects."Hmmmm.And this exchange:Morris said the group [compiling the boondoggles list] discounted the fact that Dallas Area Rapid Transit built the largest light-rail system in America when it said Dallas needs to diversify its transportation infrastructure.Sara E. Smith, state director of Texas Public Interest Research Group, said that she applauds DART's achievement and that Dallas has made great strides in increasing transportation options."That doesn't justify millions in dollars for a toll road project that the numbers just aren't there to support," she saidIn the Editorial Department, we're about a week away from our election season marathon of candidate interviews. That means that soon we can have that Trinity discussion I referenced here. I am eager to have the opportunity to ask my colleagues what they think of Morris's latest arguments.Here's my initial take: I find the arterial road points less than persuasive because Formby's report indicates that other arterial roads will be more congested. So there's a lot of give and take there. And from everything we've reported on north Oak Cliff and West Dallas, they seem to be doing just fine, thank you, on economic development without a toll road. For example, here and here.One of my colleagues (you can probably guess which) recently said something colorfully similar to "I know you think Michael Morris has horns." No, I don't. But I am not persuaded that he's right on this issue. And I do think he's crawled out on some pretty thin tree limbs.  