A friend of mine, whose partner has just died after fighting cancer for ten years, asked us not to send flowers to his funeral but to donate to the Cancer Counselling Trust, which had been of enormous help to the family.Logging onto the website, in order to give my donation, I read an announcement stating that, in August, the charity will be forced to close. After ten and a half years of counselling cancer patients, their families and friends - most of whom are referred to the Cancer Counselling Trust by the NHS or by other cancer charities - the money has run out. I rang the Trust and spoke to Dilys Stinson, Head of Clinical Services.  She told me that she and six others of the current team, came from Cancer Backup when that charity closed its counselling service.  The Trust is a small organisation but one which has made a real difference to over 2,000 people.  Knowing that cancer often has a negative affect on the financial situation of families and travel is expensive - The Trust is based in London -  telephone support and counselling is offered, in addition to face-to-face work.The Trust also supervises the senior MacMillan nurses - and it is from MacMillan that 75 per cent of The Trust's clients come because, like Cancer Backup, they do not offer their own counselling service.There is no government funding for the Trust and none is being offered. It will be an enormous loss if this charity has to close.  There are other organisations which offer counselling as part of a package but the Cancer Counselling Trust is there exclusively for patients and families - the latter, not sure of how to cope or help, often need the support of counsellors too.Is there, perhaps, another cancer charity who might be able to offer financial support ? Would the NHS change its mind - after all, if the Cancer Counselling Trust closes, where does the NHS propose to send its patients who cannot afford to pay privately? If you have any suggestions please log on to www.cancercounselling.org.uk - or email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.ukOn another note: not content with Amanda Platell suggesting that we all think of ourselves as "victims", Jan Moir - writing in the Daily Mail last week - believes that we should stop using the words "winning" and "losing" to describe the battle with cancer because, if someone does not recover, it implies that he or she did not fight hard enough. That is ridiculous.  If we feel "psychologically beached" it has nothing to do with the use of the words "winning" and losing". I do not know anybody who would think that. I agree with her that surviving cancer is "not just a matter of will" and that it depends on the type and grade of cancer.  However, we all know that positive thinking and a fighting spirit go a long way towards beating the disease.  There is no doubt that it is a battle and, if you fight a battle, you will either "win" or "lose". What vocabulary does she suggest we use?