The judge in the trial of Oscar Pistorius said she would deliver her verdict on 11 September, as closing arguments concluded in court.The five-month trial drew to a close with the defence insisting the athlete should be acquitted of the premeditated murder of Reeva Steenkamp at his home in Pretoria on 14 February last year. Pistorius claims he thought he was confronting an intruder and did not intend to shoot.In his closing submission, Barry Roux, lead counsel for the defence, told Judge Thokozile Masipa that Pistorius' experience over many years as a disabled person - his lower legs were amputated when he was a baby - was comparable to that of an abused woman who kills her husband: "She has had enough ... The cup is full to the brim."Roux said the state had been wrong to pursue the charge of murder after assertions made at the initial bail hearing - that he was wearing his prostheses at the time he fired the gun, and that he was standing close to the toilet door as he fired into it - had been disproven. "Culpable homicide [manslaughter] is what the trial should have been about - but unfortunately it was not."Pistorius' team submitted two lines of defence, despite criticism from prosecutor Gerrie Nel, who called them "not just mutually exclusive but mutually destructive". The accused should be acquitted, Roux argued, because if the firing of the gun was purely reflexive - because he was startled by a noise - he lacked criminal capacity.Alternatively, it was "putative private defence" (self-defence) because Pistorius believed he was in imminent danger: that an intruder was coming out of the toilet. He had no motive to kill Steenkamp, Roux insisted, telling the court the relationship had been "loving".The state's case that the couple were awake in the early hours arguing was dealt a "fatal" blow by evidence that a security guard went past the house at 2.20am and heard no arguing, the defence maintained.Pistorius' hopes could hinge on a forensic timeline of events constructed by the defence to show that the state's version - in which the fatal shots were fired at 3.17am - cannot be true.The defence says noises heard by neighbours at 3.17am were the thuds of the cricket bat as Pistorius broke down the toilet door. The gunshots, it contends, were several minutes earlier.The timing might prove crucial in determining whether screams heard by neighbours on the Silver Woods estate were those of Steenkamp or, as the defence claims, Pistorius, who is said to sound like a woman when distressed.Roux asked the court: "If the shots were, as submitted by the state, at 3.17am, would it make sense that before firing the shots the accused would shout 'help, help, help'?"But in a surprise move, Roux said Pistorius should be found guilty of a separate charge of negligently discharging a firearm in a restaurant. Pistorius had pleaded not guilty.In a brief response, Nel said Pistorius should be convicted of premeditated murder: "The accused intended to kill a human being. He knew there was a human being in that toilet. That's his evidence ... He is guilty of murder. There must be consequences for it."