We all deal with illness in our own way and this was reflected strongly in the stories of two women I heard recently, both diagnosed with breast cancer and both determined not to let the disease overcome them.Jane Furnival, aged 51, was diagnosed with a form of breast cancer - Lobular - which had spread to 24 or her 28 lymph nodes.  She had a mastectomy, then chemotherapy, radiotherapy and was taking Letrozole (which lowers the oestrogen levels in the body).  The MRI scan revealed that, at that moment, there were no secondary tumours but  - to be on the safe side - Jane asked for her ovaries to be removed, because it is in these organs that secondary tumours are most likely to appear.  The NHS concurred and the operation took place -  but, as Jane points out , unless the patient requests this surgery, it is not volunteered by the NHS. Surely, this sort of preventative measure should be offered. In the long run, it would save the NHS money.With no idea if or when another tumour might emerge, Jane began her own research to find a drug to halt the cancer - having begun the diet with which we are now so familiar (no dairy, soya or meat but wheatgrass, manuka honey and broccoli instead)  and, interestingly, using aluminium-free anti-perspirant (after research linked aluminium to breast cancer).Then she discovered a drug called Zometa (zolendronic acid) which is used to protect against osteoporosis and appears, also, to protect against breast cancer.  Breast cancer cells often spread into the bone, thus stimulating bone-destroying cells.  Tamoxifen and other oestrogen inhibiting drugs weaken the bones and make them more susceptible to cancer - and now Jane had no ovaries, her risk of osteoporosis was higher. Large trials of Zometa have been undertaken in the USA, with excellent results - when given immediately after chemotherapy.  However, when Jane requested this drug - £2 a day - from The Royal Marsden, her consultant told her that she did not fall into NICE's category of women who can be given the drug - her bones were not weak enough!Nothing deters this lady and, having read that Zometa was available in Guatamala, she emailed her medical notes and was offered the chance to have the treatment.  She boarded an aeroplane and - all alone - took the intravenous treatment  from an eminent oncologist and his smiling team of nurses. The after effects were extremely unpleasant but she was given papaya to ease and soothe her stomach and, when she felt strong enough, she flew home.  Having thought she would have to fly back every six months for the next dose, she was thrilled to discover that the doctor at The Marsden - on seeing the results of the Zometa - had made his own clinical judgement and agreed to complete her course of treatment in the UK. It would have been so much simpler - and less expensive - for Jane if that decision had been made in the first place.The second lady - Hilary Rose - was diagnosed with stage two (of four) and grade three (the highest) breast cancer.  Having spread to the nodes, chemotherapy was suggested.  Hilary decided her attitude would be one of  "to hell with cancer".  Instead of googling everything about the disease, asking questions of the doctors, needing to know the ingredients of the chemotherapy, accepting a cooling cap - which she describes as "a form of ridiculous torture" - she concentrated instead on the latest Chanel nail varnish, which high heeled shoes to wear to the hospital waiting room and even found an upside in the "hot chemotherapy doctor" who, she says, "could make any chemotherapy session go with a swing just by twinkling".  Hilary describes graphically how she coped with the chemotherapy and, most movingly - and amusingly - how, by avoiding mirrors, she has adapted to the hair-loss and perfected the art of applying makeup without seeing her face. She continues to work, when perhaps she should be resting, and she says "I don't want fake hope and blind assurances.  I want hard facts from eminent oncologists, a stiff drink and, most of all, nice nails.  Cancer, dammit, is not going to stop me."These are two remarkable women and they represent so many more women and men who are finding their own way through their illness.  Perhaps you might like to email me with your story.