11.40am: Good morning and welcome to the NHS live blog. Today both houses of parliament turn their attention to the health and social care bill, with the seventh day of the report stage in the Lords, and a Labour-led debate in the Commons. The Labour motion is here:The epetition it refers to is here. When an epetition reaches 100,000 signatures it is eligible for consideration for a debate in the Commons, as we reported here last month. But the Commons backbench committee, which makes the call on what epetitions make it to a debate, did not choose this one.We'll be keeping an eye on both debates; my colleague Andrew Sparrow will be covering the opening speeches in the Commons in detail on his politics blog - that will be around 4.30pm. As ever, comments below or via Twitter (@Claire_Phipps) are very welcome.11.57am: Some confusion this morning about the position of the Royal College of GPs, which has been vocal in its opposition to the NHS bill. The Independent reports this morning that doctors have "give[n] up fight with government over NHS reforms", with what it call "an extraordinary appeal to David Cameron for a truce in their vitriolic battle".It goes on:This is slightly puzzling. Not least because the letter was sent last week and was reported at the time (see here).Dr Clare Gerada, for one, seems pretty adamant that this is not a u-turn. She tweets:The link is to the RCGP website here, where you can read its official stance on the bill:The original letter - which has been on the RCGP website since last week - is here.12.51pm: Five Lib Dem MPs have tabled an amendment to the Labour motion on the health bill. As my colleague Andrew Sparrow reports on the politics blog, Andrew George, John Pugh, Adrian Sanders, Greg Mulholland and David Ward have tabled an amendment of their own saying they do not support the bill "in its current form".The wording of the amendment can be found on Éoin Clarke's blog here; it proposes toThat would be the coalition agreement that pledged no "top-down reorganisation of the NHS".Thanks to Szophee in the comments and @SharonBrennan on Twitter for the link.1.02pm: Politics Home website is now reporting that the Speaker has accepted the amendment from the five Lib Dems and that Labour will support it. See here.1.17pm: The Lords is currently debating an amendment put forward by crossbench peer Lady Emerton that would introduce statutory regulation of workers who regularly have work delegated to them by a registered nurse or midwife. Later on we'll get the meatier amendment 300A - tabled by the Labour front bench - that would delay the competition and regulation part of the bill from coming into force until April 2016; and would require both the Lords and the Commons to approve that.Lady Thornton, Labour's shadow health minister in the Lords, has blogged about that amendment here. She writes:She points out that the Lords will not have the opportunity to see the Department of Health's risk register on the reforms - despite the ruling by the information tribunal last week that it should be published - before making their decision on the bill. But Thornton adds:1.42pm: Hi, this is Paul Owen, taking over from Claire Phipps for the afternoon.You can watch the House of Lords debate live here.Here you can see how far the health and social care bill has got through parliament - it is on its final day of report stage, with third reading next on 19 March - and read the bill in full.Here is the list of amendments to be considered today.1.53pm: Discussing her proposal for a compulsory register  of healthcare support workers, Lady Emerton said a voluntary register would not satisfactorily protect patients, and health care support workers were "calling for mandatory training and regulation".She pointed to the  report into poor levels of care provided by support workers in Mid Staffordshire. Labour frontbencher Lord Hunt of Kings Heath backed the call. But Earl Howe, the health minister, said:  "The government's view is that compulsory statutory regulation is not the only way to achieve high quality care. It is no substitute for good leadership at every level and proper management of services." Voluntary registers would take effect from next year and three years later a review would be carried out to see if it had been effective and whether a statutory register was needed, he said. He added that the government would have the power to compel NHS bodies to employ only workers on the voluntary register. Following his reassurances, Lady Emerton withdrew her amendments.2.07pm: Peers have just voted not to pass amendment 243,  which would have halted the abolition of the General Social Care Council.  The GSCC sets standards of conduct and practice for social care workers and their employers in England. Its abolition will now go ahead. The figures were:Contents: 180Not contents: 2122.12pm: After a bit of toing and froing, crossbencher Lord Patel withdrew his amendment on registration of public health specialists when Lady Northover, for the government, said the coalition was planning to introduce such regulation itself.2.23pm: The House of Lords has adjourned for a break. Over in the Commons, where proceedings are being covered by my colleague Andrew Sparrow on his Politics blog, Labour has announced that it will join forces with Lib Dem rebels this afternoon and support an amendment that they have tabled saying they do not support the health bill. The vote will take place at around 7.30pm and there is no chance of the amendment passing.Andy analyses the politics of the move:Greg Mulholland MP, one of the Lib Dem rebels backing the amendment, put out a statement explaining why he was doing so.2.33pm: Peers are back.2.41pm: The Lords sat early today to get through all the health bill amendments. Normally their agenda would have started with oral questions - today scheduled to be on the role of the RAF during the Fukishima nuclear plant disaster, compensation for victims of last year's riots, improving ancient woodland, and humanitarian aid and "security assistance" in Syria. They are just getting through these questions now, and will return to the health bill afterwards.2.55pm:  You can watch the House of Lords live here.3.03pm: Peers are now resuming discussing the health and social care bill.3.18pm: Andy Burnham, the shadow health secretary, pressed the case for  Labour and the  Lib Dem to find "common ground" on the future of the NHS. He said: 3.31pm: Peers are making their way out to vote on a Labour amendment that would stop the National Patient Safety Agency - which aims to reduce risks to patients receiving NHS care and improve safety - being abolished by the bill.3.43pm: Peers have just voted on the amendment that would stop the abolition of the National Patient Safety Agency.Contents: 187Not contents: 244The amendment failed. The National Patient Safety Agency will be abolished.Peers are now discussing crossbench amendment 292A, which would bring home care within the scope of the Human Rights Act.3.52pm: Crossbench peer Lady Greengross is introducing her amendment on bringing home care within the scope of the Human Rights Act.  She says she knows the minister is sympathetic to her aims but the bill as it stands will not provide a legal guarantee of this.Support for this amendment would clarify beyond doubt that a person providing home care is performing a public function with all the implications that suggests, Greengross says.3.55pm: Crossbencher Lord Rix  says people abused in a care home could have legal redress, but not those receiving care at home. "We should not be willing to tolerate such an absurd inconsistency."He adds: "In my view abuse is abuse is abuse, and it should be as simple as that."4.12pm: A commenter who says he is Andrew George, Lib Dem rebel MP, points out that "for the avoidance of doubt and to correct the impression of your report, it is the Labour motion which "declines to support the bill in its current form". He is right. The parliament website shows the Labour motion:and the Lib Dem amendment to that motion:4.16pm: The Commons debate on the health bill will be starting shortly. Andrew Sparrow will be covering the opening of the debate on his Politics blog. He writes:4.35pm: Tory Lord Newton of Braintree says it would be very unwise to rush to add this to the bill only a few days before its third reading - ie the penultimate stage.This amendment extends the definition of public body to bodies that are not public, he says.Labour frontbencher Lady Wheeler says her party supports the amendment.4.42pm: Earl Howe, speaking for the government, says he shares a determination that the human rights of everyone taken care of in their own home are protected. This is not negotiable, he says.But will the amendment help or hinder us in achieving that, he asks.The government's view is that all providers of publicly funded home care should consider themselves bound by the Human Rights Act, and the government would argue that in court, Howe says.He will not be supporting the amendment.4.44pm: The amendment has very serious and unhelpful implications for the wider functioning of the Human Rights Act, Howe says. It would cast doubt on whether all areas other than social care were covered by it, he says.4.53pm: Earl Howe sums up with a number of statements emphasising that he supports the spirit of the amendment. He says the government takes an "expansive view" of section six (on public bodies) of the Human Rights Act. We would intervene in legal cases in support of that, he says. Human rights would be part of the underpinning of this law. He commits to a round table to bring together all key partners to establish how our strategy on adult social care ensures protection of human rights.4.56pm: Lady Greengross responds. Howe's commitments are very welcome, she says. But she would still wants to put it to the vote. Clear the bar.5.09pm:  Peers have just voted on an amendment which would have brought home care within the jurisdiction of the Human Rights Act. It failed.Contents: 196Not contents: 2535.38pm: Hello, this is Claire Phipps taking over the blog again for the rest of the day. Thanks to Paul Owen for his coverage this afternoon.The Lords debate is continuing and you can watch that here.Meanwhile, on the politics blog, Andrew Sparrow is continuing his coverage of the Labour debate on the health bill. Andrew Lansley is now responding to Andy Burnham, using stats on the NHS in Wales to argue his case that the NHS is better in this government's hands than in Labour ones.David Cameron got into trouble last month when he made similarly disparaging comments about NHS waiting times in Wales - the Welsh administration was quick to rebut his claims. But a Guardian reality check blog found Cameron was on pretty solid ground.We're expecting new waiting time figures for the NHS in England later this week. Recently that hasn't been such good news for Cameron and Lansley.6.08pm: Baroness Thornton is talking now, and accuses Earl Howe of "missing the point". She wants to warn, she says, of "the risks of implementing so much change, so quickly", and says she backs the Labour motion - amended by the five Lib Dems MPs - being debated in the Commons.On earlier reports that the Royal College of GPs was "resiling" from its opposition to the bill (see 11.57am), Thornton says:The Lords are voting now. This is on amendment 300A - the key one today - which seeks to delay the introduction of the competition elements of the bill (part 3) until 2016.6.21pm: Amendment 300A falls.Contents: 178Not contents: 2377.02pm: The government has won on today's most significant vote in the Lords - the Labour attempt to delay the introduction of the competition elements of the bill. In the Commons, they're still discussing the Labour-led (and Lib-Dem-rebel-amended) motion against the bill; we're due a vote on that around 7.30pm, which I'll note on here.Here's a summary of today's events: The Lords have voted down further amendments to the government's health and social care bill, including efforts by the Labour frontbench to delay the introduction of the competition and regulation elements until 2016 (see 2.07pm, 3.43pm, 5.09pm and 6.21pm). In the Commons, Andrew Lansley has defended the bill in what my colleague Andrew Sparrow calls a "bad-tempered debate" (see his summary here). David Miliband weighed in, saying:The vote is due at 7.30pm and I'll update this blog with the result then. The Royal College of GPs has reiterated its opposition to the health bill, in response to reports that it had performed a u-turn in its fight against the government's plans. Head of the college Dr Clare Gerada said:(See 11.57am.)7.32pm: MPs are voting now. A reminder: this isn't a debate that affects the passage of the health and social care bill, but a Labour motion noting the fact that 170,000 people have signed an e-petition calling for it to be dropped and saying the Commons declines to support the bill.Labour also accepted an amendment by five Lib Dem MPs calling for a summit involving health professionals to plan alternative health reforms "based on the coalition agreement". The MPs are now voting on whether to support that amendment.7.45pm: The amendment to the Labour motion - tabled by five Lib Dem MPs has been defeated.Ayes: 260Noes: 314The MPs will now vote on the main Labour motion.7.49pm: Below the line, parrotkeeper has helpfully been posting the results of the divisions in the Lords (see latest one here). Those expecting a Lib Dem rebellion following the spring conference debate might be disappointed.Yes, you guessed it - still no LD rebellion7.59pm: Labour motion is lost, by 258 votes to 314. (Two MPs seem to have scarpered between the two votes.)8.03pm: That's it for the NHS blog today, after a long day of debates in the Lords and the Commons, the government is left very much with the upper hand over its health bill.There's a summary of the day's events here, to which I should now add that the government has comfortably won in the Labour debate that sought to persuade the Commons to "decline to support" the bill.Thanks very much for your comments below the line and your tweets.