9.28am: Good morning and welcome to Newsdesk live, the Guardian's blog explaining our editing and commissioning process and opening it up to your input.10.42am: Half-term week is typically quiet, news-wise, but today should see developments in some long-running stories.Today, the protesters from the Occupy London camp at St Paul's will hear whether their application to appeal against the decision to evict them has been successful. Peter Walker has put together a comprehensive round-up of the UK Occupy movement - can Occupy continue once the occupations are over?Abu Qatada could be released on bail today - Alan Travis is following the story and you can read more about the background here.And the beleagured health and social care bill is back in the Lords today. Yesterday, Simon Hughes, the deputy Lib Dem leader, suggested Andrew Lansley should "move on" from the health role, but as yet there seems to be no sign that the government is backing down on pushing the bill through. Randeep Ramesh will be live blogging the story today.If you have any thoughts on how we could cover these - or other - UK stories today, do get in touch.10.50am: Often, discussions in the newsroom focus on what we choose not to cover as well as what we do. Jonathan Haynes, our web news editor, explains why the Guardian opted not to show some of the images published following the death of Whitney Houston on Saturday night:11.07am: The Associated Press is reporting that police have said parts of Amsterdam's Schiphol airport have been evacuated after bomb threat. We're watching this to see how it develops, and are not snapping it on the site yet or writing a story until information becomes more solid.This has caused some wry smiles on the desk because "the Schiphol question" is one we use in-house to determine the Guardian's depth and breadth of coverage and our allocation of reporting resources. In full, the question is, effectively: "If there's a plane crash at Schiphol airport, should we send a reporter to it or use agency coverage?"11.40am: Abu Qatada is to be released on bail imminently. We have a story from Alan Travis about to launch on the site. Qatada will not be permitted to take his children to school, as was previously allowed when he was on bail before.12.04pm: We have a live QA starting now with Dr Tony Calland, chair of the British Medical Association ethics committee, on the issues around organ donation. Do post a question for him here.12.47pm: Chris Moran, our SEO editor, spotted this story on Mail Online about Apple being accused of hiking the price of Whitney Houston's music in the wake of her death.12.59pm: My colleague Shiv Malik reports that we won't get a verdict on the Occupy appeal against eviction today2.48pm: Applications opened today for groups that want to establish their own free schools next year. Jessica Shepherd, our education correspondent, has been finding out who is applying and what their schools are like.One application is from an evangelical Christian group that wants to set up a 1,000-pupil school with 10 sites across Sheffield. Jessica writes:Another application is from Manchester Grammar School, a leading public school. And another is from a group of ex-servicemen and women who want to establish a secondary school with a zero tolerance behaviour policy. Let us know what else you would like to know about these schools. You can comment below the line or contact Jessica at @jessshepherd14.44pm: Tomorrow our arts correspondent Mark Brown will be in Salford for the Arts Council state of the arts conference - you can read more about it here and tweet Mark here @MarkBrown14.And it's Valentine's day, of course - any thoughts on what we should (or shouldn't) be covering?4.53pm: That's it for today - expect to read more on Ali Diazaei and Abu Qatada on the site this evening and in tomorrow's paper, as well as the latest on the arrests of Sun journalists at the weekend.Thank you for reading.