Number one rule for having guests around is that you tell them to make themselves feel at home. Number one rule for being a guest is that you don't take this too literally - no flipping on Ceefax for the Champions League results during a dinner party, say, or rearranging furniture. But one place where you can't avoid making yourself comfortable is the bathroom (you might say the combination of undress and solitude even encourages it). But even in that locked-door sanctum, there are types of behaviour that will ensure you are never invited back.  It is safe to assume that putting down the toilet seat and rinsing the suds off the soap are good manners that even a first-time alien bathroom user would know. But some actions simply will not do.  Flipping the magnifying mirror to 'big face' setting   If you must check your pores/the progress of your monobrow, please take care to turn the mirror back to its original position. The last thing your host needs is the vision of their ballooned head greeting them the following morning.  Turning the toilet roll round the wrong way   The right way, of course, is with the paper looping over the top. If your host has for some reason gone for the underarm style, resist the temptation to switch it - they will feel like social failures. Conversely, never mess with correctly hung paper. The result will be massive paper spillage, the bathroom equivalent of graffiti-ing obscenities on the paintwork.  Adjusting the shower settings   As an overnight guest, you accept the necessity of acclimatising to the host's central heating preferences, waking-up time and choice of teabag. So what makes you think you can tamper with that most delicate and reassuring of morning routines, the shower settings?  Resetting the bathroom scales   A hopeless prank if they have those fancy electronic ones, unless you happen to have brought with you your toolbox and a City  Guilds in electrical engineering. The manually adjustable ones, however, are within the wit of any guest to tamper with. Fiddling with the dial to make your host believe she has lost half a stone overnight on her incredible Pinot Grigio and Kettle Chip diet is just about forgivable. The opposite manoeuvre, however, is unlikely to bring you good karma.  Stealing toiletries   Please be aware that your hosts dust down the Molton Brown goodies only when they're expecting guests. If you insist on slipping them into your handbag like a hotel junkie, you will be ruining their plan to eke out the luxury supplies for at least four years.  Using their toothbrush for any reason   Including, but not restricted to, cleaning your teeth.  Checking the medicine cupboard/contraception drawer   Funny, isn't it, how bathroom cupboard doors just slip open? The problem is, you think you're going to unmask a pharmacy of high-grade narcotics when, in fact, all you are likely to find is a pack of Rennies and some verruca cream. And while you might find out a little more about your dear friend's contraceptive habits, don't imagine you'll be sneaking a look at their sex toy collection. That, as any seasoned snooper knows, is in the bedroom drawer.