Scan the faces of the mobs who took angrily to the streets of Wakefield, Croydon and Birmingham after England's defeat on Sunday, or the visiting supporters who kicked off in Portugal the day after, and you would be hard-pushed to find a single woman. Women, it seems, don't do bottle-throwing and car-burning. The news, then, that five women are among the 2,700 English fans banned from travelling to Portugal this year, following convictions for football-related disorder, comes as something of a surprise. Where do they fit in? One of them - a 16-year-old Bournemouth fan who assaulted a police officer - has been convicted of a violent crime. Two others - a 28-year-old Sheffield Wednesday fan, and an Aston Villa supporter, 29 - were charged with public order offences earlier this year.  Last month, Beatrice Erasmus pleaded guilty at Cardiff magistrates court to being abusive to stewards inside, and throughout her ejection from, the city's Millennium Stadium during the FA Cup final. Chelsea fan Suzy Vardela, also barred from Euro 2004, was fined for drunkenness at a match against Ipswich in 2001. She protested earlier this week, "There is no way I'm a soccer thug ... The only thing I was convicted of was being drunk."  These five women represent just 0.2% of the "troublemakers" on the official blacklist compiled by the National Criminal Intelligence Service. But, although statistically insignificant, they are a relatively new phenomenon: according to the Home Office, only one banning order was made against a woman in 2002-3.  Other incidents where women have been involved in football-related disorder (although they have not necessarily been banned) suggest that the shift to more proactive policing adopted by some police forces - taking action against minor offenders, as well as career hooligans - has picked up women on the fringes of violent groups of fans.  Last October, for example, a woman was among four English fans arrested in Istanbul while trying to get into the stadium for the Turkey-England match. In June 2002, a woman and six men were arrested in Plymouth after England played Denmark in the World Cup, in a fracas that took 32 police officers an hour to subdue.  "It is inevitable that [women] will occasionally get embroiled in disorder," says David Swift, Britain's most senior police officer in Portugal for Euro 2004. "But they are not the key individuals. What tends to happen is that their partner gets involved, they respond and get involved, too."  Graham McCarthy, a Cardiff police officer who worked on the Erasmus case, agrees: "The marauding in the streets in gangs is done by males."  And, he adds, it is not a given that because women now tend to drink more, they will become involved in football's violent subculture. "A lot of the people who are hellbent on causing problems will orchestrate this when sober. They are the hardcase hooligans." There is, as yet, no evidence that women are becoming involved in this kind of activity.  "More women are coming to football because the police and the football authorities, and the clubs themselves are trying hard to change the environment," says McCarthy. Clubs are eager to welcome the "civilising" influence of female spectators - and their cash, of course. A special ticket deal here, a creche there, and a more diverse crowd should be the result.  Swift has spent the week monitoring the situation in Portugal, watching the England fans most of them on their best behaviour. Women are not a policing priority. "Among the people we have observed in bars and pubs, chanting and getting drunk," he says, "we haven't seen a single woman."