 I don't have a television, so why all this hassle?  Say there was nothing on telly worth watching over Christmas and most people will nod in agreement, memories of The Vicar of Dibley still too recent to be benign. But say you think there is no telly worth watching at all - that, in fact, you don't even possess a set - and many will downright refuse to believe you. Including, it seems, the people in charge of television licensing enforcement. Reader N Bloxham, of Cheltenham, is one such person. He does not own a television and returned a general query form to TV Licensing (Bristol) in the autumn of 2004 to tell them so. A couple of weeks later, he received another, identical form, requesting the same information, so Bloxham rang the office, confirmed he did not own a television, and thought that was that.  But scepticism about his TV-free existence continued, and in rather more forceful form. In late November, two "official warning" letters plopped through Bloxham's letterbox. "You are hereby notified," they warned, "that we have authorised officers from our enforcement division to visit your home and interview you under caution, as our records show there is still no TV licence at this address and as yet we have received no response to previous communications from you." (Not so, insists Bloxham.) "Your statement will be taken in compliance with the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984," the letters continued, "and is the first step in our action to prosecute if we find evidence that you watch or record television without a valid licence ... To avoid an appearance in court before a magistrate, I would strongly advise you to buy a TV licence."  "It is obviously a standard form, sent out irrespective of any evidence of guilt," writes Bloxham. "For people who do not have TVs, filling in TV licensing forms appears to offer no protection from harassment."   Sure enough, the warning missives, signed by the "TV Licensing enforcement manager", are automatically doled out to those registered in the system as being licence-free. One might have hoped this list would be matched somehow with those registered as being TV-free, but it appears things are not quite that simple.  "Unfortunately, our experience over the last financial year has shown that almost half of all people who claimed not to have a television were found to be using one, and required a licence, when we checked the premises," says a TV Licensing spokesperson. This means that when the office is notified that an address does not need a licence, officers will visit to check that this is the case. "Once   the visit is done, enquiries will stop for a number of years for those who genuinely do not require a licence."  The system, it turns out, did not run so smoothly in Bloxham's case. But his records have now been updated, and a letter sent out to him to explain that he will receive a visit from an inquiry officer to check he does not have a television - and then be left in peace. Unfortunately, adds the spokesperson, "The letter also advised him that there might be one more letter in our mailing system, which we were unable to stop at that point."      The broadband service that kept getting slower Leigh Wilson writes from Southampton with technical difficulties. Having decided to upgrade a 128k broadband connection to 512k, Wilson completed the process online and was told to expect the new, speedier service in three hours' time. Alas, it was not to be so. When, a few days later, there was still no improvement - the computer was, in fact, running at speeds slower than conventional (so-last-year) dial-up - Wilson rang customer services, only to be told there was a problem on the line, which, he was promised, would be resolved within 14 days.  "Ever since then, my computer has been running at speeds between 19k(!) and 150k, not the 512k I am paying for," Wilson writes. "I have rung customer service about eight or nine times, have been on the phone for well   over an hour, and all anyone tells me is there's a problem on the line. No one will tell me what the problem is or what they're doing to get it sorted. This has been going on for more than a month and I can't see anything getting done."   With a new year spring in its step, Tiscali proves very quick indeed in getting this confusion sorted, once Consumer gets in touch. After investigation, it turns out that the problems with the line - caused by "localised network issues prior to Christmas" - were not the root of Wilson's slow-moving computer problems, though, knowing that these issues were affecting speed and access to internet services, this was, not unreasonably, the first diagnosis made by Tiscali customer services.  Those hitches were soon out of the way, however, though Wilson's weren't. But the bottom of the problem was eventually got to. "This was not a Tiscali network or service problem; we checked the customer's service and on the Tiscali side there were no speed or access issues," a company spokeswoman explains. "One of our technical support people contacted the customer and we diagnosed a virus, which we helped to eradicate." So, first pat on the back of 2005 goes to Tiscali.  Write to us at119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please enclose full postal address and telephone number.