Being the most powerful woman in the world is easily reason enough to leapfrog Condi into the list (Wu Yi, vice-premier of China, comes second in Forbes' power list). We might have misgivings over her hawkishness, but her move in November from US national security adviser to secretary of state saw her become the first black woman to fill the role, and her close working relationship with Bush means she will be a major influence on, well, the whole world for the next four years. Love her or loathe her - and being slap-bang in the heart of the worryingly anti-abortion Bush administration does make her one of those people for whom a waiver of the normal rules of sisterhood can apply - she's had an extraordinary year and completely skittled the hoary old notion that female politicians only do the soft jobs.    Sonia Gandhi  That Sonia Gandhi won the Indian general election was surprising enough. That she turned down the post of prime minister was simply flabbergasting. In May, the 57-year-old Italian-born widow of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi looked set to become India's next prime minister. Nearly 380 million people voted in the election, many of those turning out to vote for Gandhi's Congress party being the nation's poor. "The post of prime minister has not been my aim," she said. "I was always certain that, if ever I found myself in the position I am in today, I would follow my inner voice. I humbly decline the post." Possibly the first recorded example of a politician with humility.     Estelle  A few years ago she was depressed and penniless, unable to break through the underground garage scene, but she   listened to her mum and kept going. And now we bow down to this year's two massive hits, the Mobo award, the refusal to play macho and some sweet, cool music. "No way would I take my clothes off to sell records and I think I'll be more successful because of it." Hurrah.     Sabine Dardenne and Laetitia Delhez  The trial of Belgian paedophile murderer Marc Dutroux gripped the world earlier this year. Dutroux was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of four women and girls, his conviction secured by Dardenne and Delhez, who gave evidence. Both women were kidnapped and repeatedly raped by Dutroux when they were aged 12 and 14 respectively. Dardenne, snatched off the street as she cycled to school, was held in a soundproof concrete dungeon for 80 days, and Delhez for six, before being rescued by police. This summer, their composure in the witness box was humbling. The world was awestruck when Dardenne turned to Dutroux across the courtroom, stared at him unwaveringly, and asked: "Why did you not kill me?"     Kelly Holmes  For those of us who gave up running, even for buses, circa 1995, Holmes represents some kind of mind-bogglingly superhuman being. Written off by many after a disappointing performance at the Sydney Olympics, Holmes, 34, returned to win gold in the women's 800m and 1,500m at this year's Olympic games in Athens - the only Briton besides Albert Hill in 1920 to claim two individual track gold medals at the same Olympics. "I   could have given up. I had depression, everything. But I felt in my heart one day it might happen," she said. "This is my life, what I've dreamt of forever. No one can ever take it away. I will always be Olympic champion." A nation wept with pride.     Katharine Gun  Last year, former GCHQ employee Gun brought the the world's attention to the UN bugging scandal in the run-up to the Iraq war. She was duly charged under the Official Secrets Act. The trial collapsed as the government was placed under increasing pressure to prove the legality of the war. Now Gun, 28, has established the Truth Telling Coalition, along with several other high-profile international whistleblowers, to encourage others to reveal governmental wrongdoing. At the time of the GCHQ revelations, many labelled Gun naive; but for many, her tale remains a contemporary David and Goliath.     Margaret Hassan  That she had stayed in Iraq - working first with the British Council, then with Care International - from 1972, through the first Gulf war and the second, was impressive enough. That she did so with such energy, commitment and courage demands our total respect. She was tough, capable and always forthright. Her kidnap and unimaginably brutal murder was profoundly shocking.     Victoria Pile and Julia Davis  A new rush of female comedians and comedy writers is proving that, quite astonishingly,   women can actually make jokes about subjects other than periods and brassieres. Who'd 'ave thunk it? Leaders of the pack have to be Victoria Pile - who devised and produced Channel 4's delightfully surreal, intermittently brilliant semi-soap Green Wing - and Julia Davis, inventor of the sublimely, witheringly dark Nighty Night. Yes, that's two but we don't care - we make the rules around here, sunshine.     Patricia Hewitt  There may be a touch of the headgirl about her, but so what. The fact is that no one is doing more to transform our pitiful work culture. Last year she brought in the right to request flexible working (nearly a million benefited in its first year). This year she persuaded Gordon Brown to extend maternity leave and give couples the option of deciding between them who should take that leave. The self-proclaimed "old-lag feminist" also set up the   single equality body bringing together EOC and other equality commissions to fight discrimination. Not bad, eh.     Phoebe Philo  Philo conquered the fashion world largely by stealth. She played underdog to Stella McCartney at Chloe until 2001, when she was appointed creative director. But this has been Philo's year: she is credited with increasing Chloe's turnover by 40% last season by designing unrepentantly young, modern and feminine clothes that women actually want to wear. In a surprisingly male industry that pivots on bolshie arrogance and bruising flamboyance, Philo - who was also pronounced designer of the year - has provided a quiet, composed antidote.     Also . . .  A late mention has to be made for Ruth Kelly. She's only 36, she's the   secretary state for education and doesn't even take work home at the weekend, for cripe's sake. Also, to Jamelia, for cracking America after a three-year baby break and putting domestic violence on the music agenda. To Geraldine Finucane for the dignified way she has conducted the campaign for a public inquiry into her husband's murder 15 years ago. Brief mention to Wimbledon teen Maria Sharipova for her astonishing will to win. And lastly, Janet Street-Porter, for seeing off all those moaning minnies in the jungle.
    