The plea by Alcohol Concern for government-funded adverts to encourage "safer drinking" skids past the point here: underage drinkers are not going to opt for a swift half after the school bell, nor will they stick to a glass of good red with their evening meal because it works for the French. Teenagers, like the rest of us (with the exception, perhaps, of those for whom the words "free bar" do not conjure a frisson), drink to get drunk.  What, after all, is alcohol for? Just as the traditional British fare of meat, potatoes and veg says functional, not indulgent (and that other age-old dish, the fry-up, was invented to ease the pain of the hungover gut), the traditional British binge-drinker has a pragmatic attitude to boozing: you simply don't get the proper effect by drinking in moderation.  Is there honestly a person in the land who drinks because it could slow the onset of coronary heart disease or as a precaution against gallstones, as the seasonal binge of conscience-soothing articles on the health benefits of the occasional tipple advises us? And the pub fridges packed with neon alcopops and bog-standard wines suggest that we're not drinking because we love the taste of the stuff.  This is one small blessing in the underage drinking story: their tendency to make a grab for the Smirnoff Ices and WKDs as they flit, false cockiness in place, through the off-licence. The first rule of teenage drunkenness (well, maybe the third, after 1: you will be sick; and 2: yes, your parents can tell, no matter how much Juicy Fruit you chew) is that your early drink of choice will become the tipple you cannot touch for the entirety of your adult life (mine's a Jack Daniel's). This should mean that, in a generation's time, nobody will be buying drinks the colour of boiled sweets.  But at the same time, it is impossible, unless you unfailingly leave the pub to be home in time for Newsnight, to avoid acknowledging the indisputable downsides of our obsession with getting drunk. When the licensing minister Richard Caborn said yesterday "The message is stark and simple - if you brawl in the street, urinate in a doorway or are sick in the kerb, you could be slapped with an £80 fine", only those with the sturdiest of constitutions could argue that they find such behaviour all part of the fun.  But teenagers and their elders and wisers have been knocking back the booze since happy hours began - so maybe the real question for the survey-wielders is not how much or how often we binge, but why inebriation now goes hand in hand with antisocial mischief-making.  Part of the answer lies in our essentially, well, teenage attitude to drinking. While our palates may now be too sophisticated for meat and two veg, we've yet to develop an equivalent maturity when it comes to alcohol. We might claim to be a nation of social drinkers, but unlike with social smokers, we don't look kindly on those who choose to indulge alone. Drinking on your own at home, even if it's a couple of gin and tonics at the end of a stressful day, is step one on the way to alcoholism; six pints in the pub is just a normal night out.
    