This we learned from Gillian Shephard who, when a newly-minted MP in 1987, was told by a Tory colleague: "You're all the same, so I call you all Betty." There are a lot more women wandering the corridors of power now, so chances are it's even more difficult to remember all those pesky names.  This week's glimpse into the everyday life of Westminster folk came courtesy of a report put together by Joni Lovenduski of Birkbeck College, London, who interviewed 83 female MPs, past and present, about the jolly japes perpetuated by certain male MPs past and - blame the selection procedures - still present.  Like the teenage boys who hang around the school staircase to look up girls' skirts, there are those among our elected representatives, it seems, who still find the very existence of females something of a sniggering matter. Look! they rumble to each other as a woman steps up to speak in the chamber - breasts! If there were bra-pinging and pigtail-pulling on the back benches, who would be surprised?  For, despite the quite justified questioning of whether the voting public really wants to be represented by men who think an offer to "roger" a colleague is acceptable watercooler conversation, it's not much of a question at all. I'd wager that the kind of man who hollers "how about it?" from his van window to a passing lady (presumably with some confidence that she will respond with an "oh, go on then" and immediately hop in) would be quite happy to have as his MP a man whose idea of parliamentary debate is deciding exactly how big to make his fake "melons" as he adds his miming complement to a female colleague's speech.  Now, here's proof that we women are not all the same - some find the "melons" thing almost funny, in a contemptuous kind of way. But few can have been taken aback by the revelations. Has it really taken Yvette Cooper seven years to realise that the photograph of the rainbow-jacketed assembly of New Labour women, as Tony Blair was swept in to power in 1997, was "a big, big mistake"? Who could have foreseen that being a paid-up member of Blair's Babes would do nothing to dispel the prejudices of the Commons' less progressive members, who think any woman in Westminster must be a secretary or a mistress or, if they're very lucky, both for the price of one?  A boys' club it may be, but unlike those pipe-clogged, gentlemen-only establishments which no woman with any desire for intelligent company would ever want to invade, we sadly can't abandon the House of Commons to rot in its own backwardness. Nor simply accept the assurances emanating from SW1 this week that "we do things differently now". Not while David Blunkett can get away with calling Tessa Jowell "weak", without any of the fuss that accompanied his grumpy verdicts on his male colleagues, you don't.  Push through the tales of sexism of the laughing-and-pointing kind in the report, and it is the self-proclaimed successes of women MPs that really give pause for thought. Family-friendly working hours can't be quibbled with as a concrete, life-improving step - but they might have had a bit more oomph had Alan Milburn not been seduced by a fancy new job title.  And before we get into that perennial complaint that women are sidelined into "female" areas of government, such as health and education, it's worth running a finger down the ministerial registers: the DfES, for example, has Charles Clarke, David Miliband, Kim (nope, he's a bloke) Howells, Stephen Twigg, Lord Filkin, Ivan Lewis and - yay - Margaret Hodge. For that girly touch, no doubt.
    