Have you ever noticed there are no overweight women in the whole of France? We're not sure it has been statistically proven, but the excitement that has greeted Mireille Guiliano's book, French Women Don't Get Fat, certainly suggests they are a rare, nay non-existent, breed. Far be it from us to suggest that a few carefully chosen, Chanel-clad, whippety Parisiennes do not a universal truth make. But after years of being told we females can be thin if only we give up carbohydrates/eat raw food/exercise an hour before waking, it seems unfair to the point of cruelty now to tell us that the secret to slenderness and thus happiness is to be born a different nationality.  If you can't manage to become French in time for Christmas, try instead this contribution to Sidelines' gluttony plan, sent in by reader Michelle Wood: "Surprise children by buying chocolate advent calenders. Guzzle the chocolates and tell the children Santa must be unhappy with their attitudes and they should henceforth give all festive goodies they receive to their mother. Enjoy a month of angelically behaved children and seasonal snacks." Do keep them coming to women@guardian.co.uk Remember, we've got 23 more days of waist-watching advice to undermine.  Thrilled to hear that California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has been "cured" of acting inappropriately towards women after a course of anti-harassment lessons. "I know now what can be said and what can't be said," he reassured readers of Vanity Fair. "Now I would not even tell someone I like their outfit." Arnie, it's not really the words, more the gropes, that are the problem.  Right, that's it. We're going to have to do a mass mail-out of our prized "woman" badges to the nation's five-year-old girls in an attempt to head off some frankly potty thinking. Who could have put into their heads the idea, voiced through a survey conducted by the Institute of Leadership, that it isn't good to take charge of a group because you might be called bossy? Or the assumption that "girls become nurses and boys become doctors"? Along with the badge, we'll send a list we're compiling of our women of the year - nominations, please, to the same email address; doctors and bossy types most welcome.
    