Government sources have expressed surprise over US media reports indicating that Britain is willing to take part in an air campaign alongside the US against Islamic State (Isis) fighters in Syria.Downing Street said there had been no request from Washington for the UK to contribute to air strikes. Ministers have not ruled out air strikes, but they have consistently played down the prospect of Britain getting involved in a bombing campaign. Officials have insisted that Britain's focus is on helping the Iraqis and Kurds fight Isis by providing assistance with surveillance and supplying equipment."There would need to be a lot of discussion before Britain got involved in air strikes and we have not had any specific requests from the US on this," said a senior government source. "Our focus has not been on air strikes. It hasn't been on the table, and it has not been discussed."The British response followed a report in the New York Times, citing unnamed US officials as saying that Britain and Australia would be willing to join an air campaign against Isis forces in Iraq and Syria.The paper reported that the US president, Barack Obama, had begun to assemble a coalition of allies and neighbours in the region to increase their support for Syria's moderate opposition and, in some cases, to provide backing for possible US military operations.Officials reportedly said the US was seeking to win the support of Australia, Britain, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. Australia, which has taken part in airdrops of food and water to fleeing Iraqis on Mount Sinjar, has left open the possibility of air strikes.A spokesman for Tony Abbott, the Australian prime minister, said: "Our response to any request from the United States, or other close allies and partners, will be based on whether there is an achievable overall humanitarian purpose and a clear and proportionate role for Australia as well as on a careful assessment of the risks. Australia is not considering putting combat forces on the ground (nor, for that matter, is the United States)."Britain, like Australia, has taken part in humanitarian operations on Mount Sinjar as well as deploying Tornado fast jets and a spy plane to gather operational and tactical-level intelligence. But David Cameron, who has said that Britain and its European allies will provide equipment to Kurdish forces fighting Isis, has played down the possibility of air strikes and has categorically ruled out any use of ground troops."Britain is not going to get involved in another war in Iraq," he told BBC1's Breakfast programme last week. "We are not going to be putting boots on the ground. We are not going to be sending in the British army."The US has been carrying out bombing raids against Isis fighters in Iraq and air strikes have enabled Iraqi and Kurdish peshmerga troops to retake the strategic Mosul dam. On Tuesday, the Pentagon confirmed two more strikes in the vicinity of Irbil, the Kurdish capital. The US has now begun reconnaissance flights over Syria in preparation for a possible cross-border expansion of its aerial campaign against Isis.The flights involve manned aircraft and drones after they were approved by Obama at the weekend. Walid al-Muallen, the Syrian foreign minister, has offered Syrian cooperation against Isis, but he warned the US against carrying air strikes on Syrian territory without the consent of Damascus.  "Any strike which is not coordinated will be considered aggression,' he said.Obama has been wary of getting dragged into the Syrian civil war, which the UN says has killed more than 190,000 people. He has resisted intervening militarily in the conflict, even after the deadly chemical weapons attack a year ago that Washington blamed on Bashar al-Assad's government.But the US is deepening its involvement in Iraq. Up to 150 US intelligence operatives have been sent to Baghdad over the past nine months in response to the growing threat posed by Isis, Iraqi officials have told the Guardian.Almost all of the US operatives are connected to the National Security Agency (NSA) and have been tasked with monitoring the phonecalls and email traffic of jihadist networks.Most of the officials arrived early this year, soon after the insurgents seized Falluja and Ramadi, two Sunni cities west of Baghdad that throughout the US occupation were both strongholds of the Sunni-led insurgency.Sources in Iraq and elsewhere in the region say the US presence had helped Iraqi forces target Isis militants with air strikes in western Anbar province in late December. But the intelligence-gathering effort has also extended into Syria, where Isis maintained a command and control centre in the eastern city of Raqaa until mid-June.As the west weighs its options on Syria, a UN report said the Syrian government and Isis were both committing war crimes and crimes against humanity."Executions in public spaces have become a common spectacle on Fridays in Raqqa and Isis-controlled areas of Aleppo governorate (province)," the report said of Isis. "Children have been present at the executions, which take the form of beheading or shooting in the head at close range ... Bodies are placed on public display, often on crucifixes, for up to three days, serving as a warning to local residents."Paulo Pinheiro, chair of the UN panel, said: "Isis poses a clear and present danger to civilians, and particularly minorities, under its control in Syria and in the region." He added, however, that any decision by the US to bomb Isis in Syria must respect the laws of war.