Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, has insisted  that his party would definitely send MPs to Westminster for the first time in 2015.Speaking the morning after his adoption as Ukip's candidate in South Thanet in Kent, Farage repeated his pledge to resign as party leader if Ukip failed to win a seat in parliament. But he insisted that would not happen.Appearing on ITV's Good Morning Britain on Wednesday, Farage said: "In all of life if you succeed you get the laurels and the champagne and if you fail you get booted out. That applies to Ed Miliband, to David Cameron, to Nick Clegg and to me. "If we fail next year, the party will pick someone better than me. But we won't."Farage gained just 5% of the vote when he stood in South Thanet in 2005. But he insisted that circumstances had changed dramatically since then."Ten years is a long time in politics - 10 years ago people did not see the Ukip message being relevant," he said.Ukip is going to focus its resources on a small number of seats in 2015, mostly in coastal towns where the demographics suit the party. A recent poll found that in South Thanet, Ukip is ahead of the Tories on current voting intention and on course to win.Laura Sandys, the Conservative MP for South Thanet, was elected in 2010 with a majority of 7,617, but she is standing down at the next election.At the hustings where he was selected on Tuesday night, Farage said that although Ukip had done well in local and European elections in the South Thanet area, winning the Westminster seat would be hard.'We can't for one moment afford to be complacent because we swept the board in 2013 and we swept the board here in 2014. "We did and that was magnificent. But don't think that the heavy artillery from the Conservative and Labour parties will not be fired on this constituency. "They will try very, very hard. They don't want Ukip breaking through into parliament and they most certainly do not want me breaking through into parliament."Somebody said I'm David Cameron's worst nightmare. Well, that's not good enough. I want to be Ed Miliband's worst nightmare, too."Farage also suggested that Ukip could end up holding the balance of power at Westminster.In response to claims this was highly unlikely, Patrick O'Flynn, a Ukip MEP, tweeted: "If one party is three seats short and we have eg six seats then in my book that is balance of power."