The link between HRT and my breast cancer is always at the back of my mind. Following a hysterectomy, I took the advice of my gynaecologist and began a course of HRT. So easy did I find the drug and so good did it make me look and feel that I continued to take it for 15 years.On the retirement of my gynaecologist, he suggested it was time to retire the HRT and start the medical breast checks. As I mentioned in a previous post, coming off the HRT was truly horrendous and a menopause of giant proportions arrived. I slogged on with this for some years, taking every supplement I could find to try and alleviate the hot flushes, night sweats and mood swings.Returning to HRT was suggested but my instinct was to be very cautious about taking it again. My GP was encouraging this route but I held out which, in the end, turned out to be exactly the right course of action.Three years later, I was diagnosed with breast cancer. Whether or not the 15 years of HRT contributed to the development of the cancer, I will never know. However, I am convinced that it must have played its part.During the last few years, there have been endless research projects to try and establish a link between HRT and breast cancer. The results of all these studies see-saw between proving and disproving the case.There must have been enough of a seed of doubt sown in the last eight years - since the largest study in the USA in 2002 which showed a definite link - because the number of women taking HRT has fallen. The latest study comes from Canadian researchers, who have announced that the figures for breast cancer diagnoses were lower between 2002-2004, which coincides with a lower number of women taking HRT.However, the figures rose again in 2005 and the researchers believe this was due to women, who had not taken HRT, developing breast cancer later in life. They seem to be saying that it is not HRT which causes the cancer but, using the drug, may mean you develop breast cancer at an earlier age.Dr Prithwish De, from the Canadian Cancer Society, said: "The results support the hypothesised link between the use of HRT and invasive breast cancer."Exactly where does that leave us? Does it mean that women will develop breast cancer whether or not HRT is used? Are we back to the question of lifestyle and diet? All very confusing.