
	He looked like a lost little boy searching for his mother.
	Even at 275 pounds and standing at a towering 6-foot-4, Tony Yarbough appeared childlike as he carried two bouquets of roses on Mother's Day through the verdant, eternal pasture of Rosemount Memorial Park, a cemetery in Elizabeth, N.J.
	He'd traveled here with friends and his attorney Phil Smallman from St. Albans, Queens. As songbirds chased each other through the budding oaks and jets roared into the blue heavens from nearby Newark Airport around 8:45 a.m., Yarbough searched for the side-by-side graves of his murdered mother, Annie Yarbough, and little sister, Chavonn Barnes. The girl and mom were two victims of a horrific triple murder in Brooklyn for which Tony Yarbough served a wrongful sentence of 21 years and eight months in prison.
	Yarbough was freed in February when Smallman and another lawyer presented compelling new proof of coerced confessions and DNA evidence that propelled the newly elected Brooklyn District Attorney Kenneth Thompson to ask the court to vacate Yarbough's conviction and free this innocent gentle giant of a man.
	"The pink roses are for mom," said Tony Yarbough. "The yellow ones are for my little sister Chavonn. She was only 12 when she was murdered."
	Wearing a large button that read "Mom: Gone but Not Forgotten," he tried the cemetery office door. It was locked. A map was taped to the shuttered door and Yarbough attempted to locate the plot number — Alpha-13-H-3 on the baffling schematic.
	"I can't believe they're closed," he said. "I've been waiting almost 22 years to put flowers on my mother's and my sister's graves and the cemetery office is closed on Mother's Day?"
	The friends fanned out to search for the Alpha section as Yarbough talked about life since being freed.
	"Now I got a basement apartment in St. Albans," he says. "I've been looking for a job but it's really hard. I was incarcerated at 18. No GED. I'm studying for that. But when I fill out job applications they want a work history. I don't have one. So I can't get a job."
	He meanders down a narrow pathway, searching the location numbers on the brass grave markers.
	"It's been an adjustment," he says. "I can't believe sometimes that I can go outside with my own keys and lock my own door at night and just stand on a street corner and watch real life go by. That I can eat, shower or sleep when I want. Freedom's a funny thing. It's a little scary. It takes getting used to."
	He tries another section of the cemetery, clutching the flowers, and a Mother's Day card that he's inscribed: "Mom, what can I say to someone who has given me so much but that I love you always. I miss you so much that it hurts. Your son, Tony."
	Yarbough was charged with the murders of his mother, his sister, and the sister's friend, Latasha Knox, also 12. He was busted after a 15-year-old pal named Sharrif Wilson he'd spent the night partying with in Manhattan claimed he and Yarbough committed the gruesome triple homicide. He later recanted.
	Seven years after Yarbough was convicted, while he was in Attica, DNA in the semen of a raped and murdered woman in Sunset Park matched the DNA found under Annie Yarbough's nails. That DNA match was only discovered last year by the Medical Examiner.
	On Mother's Day, Tony Yarbough's best friend Eric shouts across the cemetery that he's found the Alpha section. A cemetery worker finally shows up and points to a simple white vase he'd placed on the unmarked graves when Tony called earlier in the week.
	"That's where Yarbough and Barnes are buried," the worker says, pointing to an unmarked patch of green earth in the cool shade of a large budding tree.
	Then Tony Yarbough knelt and placed his flowers into the small vase and the card for his mother on the soft green spring grass.
	"I can finally find peace now knowing that they are resting in peace," he said. "Once I get a job, I will buy them a grave marker."
	Finally, after wrongfully serving more than half his life in prison for their murders, Tony Yarbough prayed over the slain bodies of his mother and sister on Mother's Day.