
	I sipped my morning coffee and donned my glasses to read the story headlined: "Study: Coffee Helps Eyesight."
	I cleaned my glasses because I was sure I'd read the exact opposite not too long ago. Back when I still took daily ginkgo biloba to improve memory before a new study said ginkgo was a load of bunko that didn't do anything for your memory except make you wonder where your money went.
	Just like I stopped taking co-enzyme Q10 for my heart when a study said it could cause cardiac arrest.
	I read the story about the Cornell University study that started: "Coffee drinkers rejoice! Aside from java's energy jolt, food scientists say you may reap another health benefit from a daily cup of joe — prevention of deteriorating eyesight and possible blindness from retinal degeneration due to glaucoma, aging and diabetes."
	I gulped some coffee and poured some more. Then I Googled "coffee bad for eyesight."
	And sure enough, a blinding slew of stories appeared about how even one cup of joe could lead to a seeing-eye dog. The Oct. 3, 2012, one from Science Daily was headlined: "Caffeinated Coffee Linked to Vision Loss." It read: "A new study suggests caffeinated coffee drinkers should limit their intake to reduce their chances of developing vision loss or blindness. According to a scientific paper, heavy caffeinated coffee consumption is associated with an increased risk of developing exfoliation glaucoma, the leading cause of secondary glaucoma worldwide."
	I pushed my coffee cup away, yanked off my glasses and held up two fingers to see if I could see them.
	I could. But I wasn't sure if one plus one equaled two anymore because every time I wake up there's a new study contradicting a previous one. I used to take vitamin E daily for my heart — until a study showed that the E might stand for eternity because it caused heart attacks. I also used to take omega-3 fish oil and niacin to keep triglycerides down. Until a new study said fish oil causes prostate cancer. Which means keep taking it and you'll have the strongest heart in the morgue.
	I used to take a daily baby aspirin for heart health. Now a new study says that could lead to ulcers and brain bleeds. Which made me want to take two aspirins for my headache and call the coroner in the morning.
	We all know that Viagra helps erectile dysfunction and that it's dangerous when mixed with statins — drugs that lower cholesterol. But now "vitamin V" is Food and Drug Administration-approved to treat pulmonary hypertension, to increase blood flow to prevent amputations and to treat prostate cancer when combined with another cancer drug.
	But just when you thought it was safe to strut Virility Beach looking for love, a new study says Viagra users are 60% more prone to skin cancer. It will save you from prostate cancer, but give you melanoma.
	Researchers said dark chocolate was good for you, but of course, you can also put on 30 pounds gorging yourself on Godiva antioxidants and then get diabetes, heart attacks and strokes from obesity.
	Which can lead you to a popular FDA-approved diet drug called Alli. But be warned that the manufacturer suggests wearing dark clothes and carrying a change of undies during the first few days of use because of "treatment effects" that might include pooping in your pants.
	So, you can lose weight and all your friends and dignity, too. Which is not as bad as the menopause drug called Brisdelle — generic paroxetine — which lists such side effects as anxiety, depression and suicidal thoughts. Makes you yearn for hot flashes, no?
	Last week, a new study bubbled up that said, "Young Blood Makes Old Mice More Youthful."
	Take it from me, there are billionaires already trolling the black market looking to purchase a second lease on life by stockpiling young blood.
	Me? I took a slug of coffee after reading both java studies and don't know whether to spit or go blind.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com