
	When I heard that Bishop Ford High School was shuttering in June, I flashed back to 1960 as an altar boy in St. Stanislaus Church in Park Slope.
	Father O'Keefe, overblessed with altar wine I'd poured from a crystal cruet into his golden chalice, strutted to the pulpit. I sat and smiled at my mother sitting in a front pew.
	Before his homily, the gruff O'Keefe complained that more than a dozen parishioners were delinquent with their weekly pledge envelopes to help finance the construction of Bishop Ford high. My mother had pledged $2 a week, way more than an immigrant mother of seven living in a tenement could afford on my father's factory worker salary and her job as a movie cashier.
	But she hoped her kids would attend this new Catholic high school named for Brooklyn-born Bishop Francis Xavier Ford, who was martyred in China in 1952. So she made her pledge. Some weeks the two extra bucks were impossible to find when she needed them to feed her family. But she'd work overtime to make it up in the next week's pledge envelope. That Sunday I heard O'Keefe say my mother's name as I sat on the altar. I looked at her. She tried to hold her head high. She bowed it in prayer instead.
	I left the altar boys soon after that.
	My mother made good on her pledge. Bishop Ford High soon rose from the gutted square-block site of the old trolley barns — running from 19th to 20th Sts. and Prospect Park West to 10th Ave. — on those meager pledge envelopes from struggling families of "old" Brooklyn.
	My brother John attended the first Bishop Ford class in 1962.
	In the past 20 years, "Ford" had its up and downs. But as I watched my Catholic childhood shutter — Holy Family, my grammar school; St. Stanislaus, and St. Thomas Aquinas school, for which I played Catholic Youth Organization baseball — Bishop Ford survived.
	Until now.
	The mishandling of the disgraceful sex scandals had much to do with empty pews and desks in Catholic churches and schools. The "new" Brooklyn money went for upscale, nondenominational private schools. The new working poor Catholic immigrants simply cannot afford the $8,900 annual tuition at Bishop Ford, which was built on $2 pledge envelopes.
	"I have two brothers and one sister who already graduated Ford," said Sean Wade, a junior with a 91 average who plays middle linebacker for the Ford Falcons. "Another sister graduates in June. My mom works here as a security guard. My older sister Janie teaches sign language in Ford that she also learned here. I love Ford. This school is part of our family."
	On Monday, Principal Thomas Arria addressed a general assembly with news about Bishop Ford that was even darker than O'Keefe's humiliating old rant. "He walked on stage and told us that Bishop Ford would be closing forever in June," says Sean. "Everyone was shocked. Some kids broke into hysterical crying. Some needed counseling from the school psychologist. It was a death in the family."
	Dr. Daniel Ricciardi, a noted rheumatologist, of the Bishop Ford Class of 1970, says the closing smells like a land grab to many alums. "That square block of land in desirable Windsor Terrace must be worth at least a quarter-billion dollars," he says. "There's been lots of mismanagement at Ford. The alums raised a half-million dollars recently that just went to pay outstanding bills. We met with Bishop DiMarzio last year asking if we raised $3 million could he guarantee Ford would remain open. He wouldn't guarantee it."
	Stephanie Gutierrez, a Brooklyn Diocese spokeswoman, says she's never heard of any such alumni meeting with the bishop or accusations of a "land grab."
	"The Bishop Ford board of directors voted unanimously to close the school after looking at a projected enrollment of 422 next September, down from 1,347 eight years ago," she said. "The numbers speak for themselves."
	Ricciardi says that in the 1970s, the diocese turned control of Catholic high schools over to individual boards of directors.
	"Unlike the Christ the King High board, which has wisely refused to sign a 'reverter clause' returning ownership back to the diocese — for which the diocese is now suing the Christ the King board — the Bishop Ford board unwisely signed the reverter clause," Ricciardi says. "When the Ford board voted to close the school, the diocese wound up with that very lucrative property. But it's not over yet. The alumni association will meet very soon to try to save Bishop Ford."
	Get those pledge envelopes ready.