Follow @SharonFGrigsby

The stereotype of women journalists goes something like this: We are feminists, liberals and absolutely lockstep on so-called women's issues such as abortion.Like all stereotypes, there's some truth to this one, based on my 30 years in the business. But women journalists are no more cut from the exact same cloth as are conservatives, Latinos, pro athletes or any other group that often gets (often by the media) lumped together unfairly.My wholehearted support for abortion rights was cracking long before the recent debate in Austin, which culminated in Gov. Perry today signing (update: among the nation's most restrictive abortion bills.) As a college student in the late '70s, I felt the right to abortion was a comforting safety valve. Thank goodness, it was something I never had to actually confront. But at the time, I thought of abortion as a procedure in which you rid the body of some still wildly disorganized cellular matter. I'm not sure if that was lack of good science or my own ignorance — but I recall it being the prevailing viewpoint of those my age.So better science and technological advancements by the 1990s began my rethinking of exactly what abortion amounted to. Even two decades ago, now the "dark ages" as far as sophisticated ultrasound, I could see the heartbeats of my own little 10- and 12-week "blobs." When I experienced those heartbeats first-hand — and when I suffered several first-trimester miscarriages after seeing those heartbeats — that whole "cellular matter" argument no longer worked.Those miscarriages marked deaths. Those tiny blobs with heartbeats that didn't make it out of the first trimester were just as alive as the ones that culminated in the births of Matthew and Pierce, both of whom are now young adults.So I quit scoffing at the folks who equated abortion with murder and protested abortion clinics. And I often shocked colleagues by acknowledging that abortion "probably is murder," but better that be the fate of an unwanted child than the alternatives.Along the way, a dear friend — a married woman who was already a mother — made the difficult decision to have an abortion, with me supporting her. That abortion wrecked her life for a long, long time. I don't know that she's ever recovered from her decision. And, yes, I have other friends who chose abortion and are none the worse for it.As I said in the beginning, there are few absolutes.Next in my change of thinking came our editorial board's courageous stand against the death penalty, a stand I fought hard for. Since then, I've had difficulty squaring my support of "no death penalty" with support for abortion rights.Fast forward to the Texas Legislature's sweeping and controversial abortion regulations bill. While my thinking hasn't moved to the place that I'm ready to lead a board revolt to change our pro-choice stand and call for the overturn of Roe v. Wade, neither do I think the provisions of the new law are unreasonable. (Update: Here and here are two recent DMN editorials related to the legislation. Having been a part of the debate before the writing of the second one, I felt the final editorial was more critical of the bill than our board discussion had been.)When our board debated the restrictions in this bill, I couldn't really find a lot of fault in the rules. I certainly think the 20-week limit is reasonable. And I don't think the surgical center rules — even being able to get a gurney through the door — are unreasonable. I recognize that almost never does something go wrong in an abortion procedure, but it can. The "admitting privileges" at a nearby hospital is troublesome, but not so much that I think it was cause to oppose the bill.I'm likely to lose standing with some of my friends and colleagues over this blog post. I'm sure to lose standing with the "Stand with Wendy" supporters. (I do hope Davis runs for governor, even if I disagree with her abortion stand. Bill McKenzie put it well here.) But while I'll continue to speak up loudly for what I see as critical women's issues — equal pay, help for single mothers, health care (which is not tied at the hip with abortion rights) — I don't see abortion rights as a women's rights issue.I see it as a justice issue.(For a sense of other individual editorial board members' voices on this topic, read this and this.