
	Ever hear about the deaf kid who became a professional dancer?
	Neither did Vako Gvelesiani, 13, of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, before his dream came true.
	Vako has been dancing since he was 2. He takes lessons at Horizons Dance School near his home, where he lives with his immigrant parents from the nation of Georgia. He studies dance at Mark Twain Intermediate School 239 for the Gifted and Talented and has been accepted into the dance program at prestigious LaGuardia High School of Music  Art and Performing Arts in Manhattan.
	"Vako's dream is to go to Juilliard," says his father, Mike Gvelesiani, an electrician trained in traditional Georgian dance.
	"Yeah, and I'm a big Brooklyn Nets fan," says Vako, wearing a Nets jacket over a Nets shirt and brushing back the long, curly hair covering his ears. "I play hoops with all my neighborhood pals. I got some moves, yeah, but I don't know if I'm ready to go against Joe Johnson yet. But I was always searching the Nets website for upcoming events."
	Last year, Vako saw the Nets were auditioning kids for a dance team called Brooklyn Nets Kids. He showed up with 20 fellow students from Horizons Dance School, only to discover that 500 other kids had jammed into the practice gym at Barclays Center.
	"I thought, wow, this is a lot of kids looking for 17 spots," he says.
	Kimberlee Garris, Barclays Center director of entertainment marketing, ran the open audition with Tanisha Scott, a noted choreographer who has worked with Rihanna, Alicia Keys and Beyoncé. "We did simple eight counts across the floor and handed numbers to those we wanted to see more from," Garris says.
	The first cut reduced the group to 150 kids. "Then we did more sophisticated steps with smaller groups," says Garris. "The second cut left 50 kids. We had to pick 17."
	Vako went home like someone on trial awaiting a verdict.
	"We never told the Nets people that when Vako was 2 he ran a very high fever that made him lose half his hearing," his dad says. "Or that Vako didn't start speaking until he was 5. Or that his school teachers wear special FM radio frequency microphones that Vako picks up directly in his hearing aids."
	Despite coping with "moderate to severe sensor neural hearing loss" in both ears, Vako made the team. "I yelled and shouted," he says. "And then I started to dance."
	In that moment, this child of immigrant parents — who feared their son might never hear or talk because of his impairment — became a professional dancer, a paid member of the Brooklyn Nets Kids.
	"We signed nine boys and eight girls aged 7 to 13," says Garris. "Then we started rehearsals."
	The rehearsals were long and arduous, preparing these kids to perform before 17,000 demanding Brooklyn fans paying top dollar in the new arena.
	"After the third week, we thought Vako was a great dancer but something was, um, off with him," says Garris.
	"They told my mother I wasn't listening to instructions," says Vako.
	"That's when my wife and I told them the truth about Vako's hearing," says Mike Gvelesiani. "We wanted Vako to make it without any special consideration. But now we told them he was hearing-impaired."
	Scott and Garris quieted down the room and made sure Vako understood all the instruction. "It made us admire him all the more," says Garris. "Not only was he a great dancer, but he had overcome an adversity."
	In November, Vako boogied onto the wood of Barclays with the dance team as the crowd cheered. "My wife and I were in the audience," says his father. "Very proud. Very emotional."
	Vako says besides Juilliard, his dreams include dancing on Broadway and TV. "My message to other kids like me is, 'Never give up,' " he says. "Even if you have something different doesn't mean you are different. Just work harder."
	On Sunday, Vako will dance with the Nets Kids at a playoff game at Barclays.
	How do his neighborhood friends treat him? "They think it's cool that I dance for the Nets," he says. "But I'm just another guy shooting hoops."
	"Vako gets about 50 messages a day from girls," says his dad. "They all want to dance with Vako."
	"That part is pretty cool," Vako says, sauntering onto the practice floor in his Nets gear and breaking into dance.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com