
	Forget the Canyon of Heroes.
	Brooklyn should parade in Brooklyn.
	We're jumping way out in front of ourselves here, but if all the planets line up over Kings County and the Brooklyn Nets win the NBA championship, they should have a victory parade in the footsteps of the 1955 Brooklyn Dodgers from Brooklyn Borough Hall over to Flatbush Ave.
	They should march straight up the spine of Brooklyn to where Flatbush Ave. meets Atlantic Ave. and to Barclays Center, home of the Brooklyn Nets.
	And there the dancin' in the Brooklyn streets should begin.
	Manhattan is home to Madison Square Garden and the Knicks. So no victory parade for the Brooklyn Nets should be held on the Manhattan side of the Brooklyn Bridge. The Nets, like the Dodgers before they lammed west in 1957, are the only big-league team in town that boasts its home borough on its jerseys. The Mets call themselves the New York Mets. Even the Bronx Bombers are officially known as the New York Yankees.
	And those two football teams from New Jersey, the Jets and the Giants, who used to play in Queens and the Bronx, still call themselves New York teams even though they play in another state.
	Let them all march through the Canyon of Heroes in lower Manhattan.
	When I was a kid, I went to one game at the old Ebbets Field in 1956, the year after the Brooklyn Dodgers finally beat the Yankees in the World Series after five failed attempts. The next year, 1957, I remember my father plunging into a deep depression, moping around our apartment in a cloud of Camel smoke and cursing some guy whose name I thought was "Sunuvabitch O'Malley."
	Walter O'Malley, the owner of the Dodgers, turned his back on the loyal Brooklyn fans and moved the beloved team west.
	The Nets are the first real professional home team from Brooklyn, except for the minor league Brooklyn Cyclones, since the Dodgers fled.
	We were a borough of 2.5 million people without a home team.
	Now when I turn on the TV to watch the Nets, I see the word "Brooklyn" spelled out in white across the black jerseys and it ignites a shiver of pride through me that I always ached for as a kid. When the arena was being built, I asked owner Bruce Ratner how much cheap Nets seats would cost. He said $15. Back in February I went with my family to see the Nets vs. New Orleans at Barclays and bought five nosebleed tickets at the box office for $75.
	Keeping your word means something in Brooklyn.
	Even though I now live in Queens I root for my native Brooklyn team. Two years after the Barclays Center opened, the Nets are in the playoffs. Sure, they're a championship long shot. But no one thought Brooklyn would ever again have a home team.
	So if you're from Brooklyn, you gotta believe in miracles.
	"If they win, they definitely have to parade down Flatbush Ave.," says native Brooklynite Robert E. Murphy, author of "After Many a Summer: The Passing of the Giants and Dodgers and a Golden Age in New York Baseball." "I love the whole vibe of the new arena and the 'Brook-lyn!' chant for the Nets. . . . I was sure they'd never name the team the Brooklyn Nets. But they did."
	Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams agrees. "The Canyon of Heroes is old news," he says. "The Nets parade should be up Flatbush Ave. to Barclays Center. It will send a message to the entire globe that Brooklyn is the hottest spot in New York."
	Mayor de Blasio, who lives in Brooklyn, is also on board.
	"Definitely Flatbush Ave. in the footsteps of the 1955 Brooklyn Dodgers!" Hizzoner said.
	I'm with the mayor.
	Go Nets, in Brooklyn.