
	Mets fans were already saying, "Wait till next year," before this year's Opening Day.
	When Mayor de Blasio, a Boston Red Sox fan, threw out the first pitch at Citi Field on Monday, it reminded many that the last time the Mets won a World Series was against Boston in 1986. And that it's been five years since the Mets, in the greatest city on the planet, were even in postseason contention.
	Disturbing.
	I've been a Mets fan since Opening Day of the 1962 season, when their record ended up 40-120. In the five decades since, I'm still trying to figure out how they even managed to win those 40 games. What puzzles me even more is how last season — 51 years later — the Mets won only 34 more games than they did in 1962.
	A-maz-in'.
	Back in '62 I used to climb to my pebbled tenement rooftop to sit with my dad next to Babe Caputo's pigeon coop, pointing the tinfoil-encased antenna of the static-y transistor radio toward the Empire State Building to tune in Mets games.
	"Let's see what new ways the Mets can come up with to lose today," my father would joke.
	The Mets came up with enough errors, mishaps and blunders for Jimmy Breslin to pen a classic book that took its title from manager Casey Stengel's lament, "Can't Anybody Here Play This Game?"
	My dad didn't care how badly the Mets played back then. He was just thrilled to have a National League team playing in New York City again after his beloved Brooklyn Dodgers scrammed West in 1957. The New York Giants skipped town at the same time, leaving only the American League Yankees as a New York home team.
	My immigrant father truly became an American by rooting for the Brooklyn Dodgers. Seven years after the Mets' disastrous debut season, my dad cheered himself hoarse watching Tom Seaver lead them to their first World Series victory. My father died before the Mets won again in 1986.
	Mets fans have been waiting 27 years for a third Mets flag. Baseball is hard; I get it. But is it that hard to try to field a contending team in this age when it costs a family of four upward of $300 for decent seats and eats at Citi Field?
	Last week I stood with a bunch of baseball dads at a high school scrimmage game in Cunningham Park, 2 miles from Citi Field, talking about the coming Mets season.
	"I'm tired of waiting for next year when I'm paying through the nose this year," said John. "Like I did last year."
	"They need some new top talent to help a great player like David Wright," I said.
	"Here's what happens if you're a great player on the Mets," said Vic, a frustrated Mets fan. "Win the Cy Young like R.A. Dickey? They trade you. Win the NL batting crown like Jose Reyes? They let Florida outbid for you. Tie the Mets' record of 41 homers in a season like Carlos Beltran? They trade you."
	"And the Yankees wind up with him," I said.
	"Of course," says Vic. "If a player wants to leave the Mets all he has to do is excel. Then karma gets even with the Mets for all the bad things they did to the fans. Bring up a phenom pitcher like Matt Harvey? Hello, Tommy John surgery."
	So, on Monday, Vic skipped Opening Day at Citi Field.
	"Because instead paying to see Reyes, Dickey, Beltran and Harvey, Mets fans'll pay top dollar to see that 'Strike' Davis won the spring-training contest against Lucas Duda to start at first base," he said. "(Ruben) Tejada, who is terrific except that he's subpar in fielding, power, average and running, starts again at shortstop."
	"But the Mets say they're building for the future," I said.
	"They've been building for the damned future since 1986," Vic shouted. "The future is now! Here's a look into the future: Even with (Curtis) Granderson, the Mets win 75 games this season."
	"Another year of, 'Wait till next year,' " said John.