
	Talk about jeers from the peanut gallery.
	I was amused this week to see that former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and former Mayor Rudy Giuliani, two of the biggest hypocrites in modern politics, had the gall to surface from their holes to criticize President Obama and Mayor de Blasio.
	A knock from either of these two stiffs should be considered a cheer.
	Start with Rumsfeld, the architect of that magnificent chapter of American history called the Iraq War. This smug hatemonger went on Fox-TV on Monday to criticize Obama for taking umbrage at Afghan President Hamid Karzai's support of the Russian invasion of Crimea. Rumsfeld scored Obama for failing to secure a status of forces agreement regarding U.S. troops in Afghanistan. "A trained ape could get a status of forces agreement," Rumsfeld said.
	One might also point out that Inspector Clouseau could have figured out that Saddam Hussein had nothing — zero — to do with the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. And yet Rumsfeld and his shivering roost of neocon chicken hawks urged President George W. Bush to turn Saddam into the bogeyman of 9/11 and to invade Iraq.
	Then Rumsfeld led the charge.
	Now he's one of the most unrepentant death merchants of the 21st century. A man with the blood of thousands of innocents on his hands, brave with the lives of other people's kids to go fight a disastrous, unprovoked war against Iraq.
	And on Monday here was Rumsfeld, who was once photographed shaking hands with Saddam and who once boasted that "I don't do diplomacy," blasting Obama for his failed diplomatic skills. This is the same man who, after the fall of Baghdad turned into a month of violent looting, said, "Democracy is messy." The same man who had to resign. And he dares to compare the first black President of the United States to a "trained ape"?
	It doesn't take Mr. Ed to tell you that Rumsfeld is a horse's ass.
	Which brings us to Giuliani, who on the radio Sunday rode roughshod over de Blasio for a campaign promise: barring horse-drawn carriages in Central Park. Giuliani said the horses were "one of the reasons tourists visit our city."
	But if de Blasio keeps this campaign promise, does anyone believe tourists will stop coming for the Broadway shows, the chic shopping, the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree, the Manhattan skyline, Central Park itself, the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty?
	In his first term, I thought Giuliani helped turn this crime-plagued city around, with the help of Police Commissioner Bill Bratton. In his second term, Giuliani racially polarized the city and dumped his wife at a press conference. By Sept. 10, 2001, his popularity had plummeted to its lowest ever. Then came 9/11, during which he showed some leadership.
	But he soon turned 9/11 into his own private Franklin Mint. Giuliani supported Bush and Rumsfeld's dirty war even though he knew Iraq didn't attack the twin towers. He ran a disastrous race for President.
	Now he blasts de Blasio for the city "going in the direction of emphasis on dependency, emphasis on big city government, less emphasis on a very well and very efficiently managed city."
	Excuse me, but so far de Blasio has taken the city exactly where he promised he'd take it. He's limiting charter schools. He signed a paid sick leave law. He will get the horse carriages out of Central Park. He's pursuing universal prekindergarten.
	These are the issues de Blasio ran on — and won 75% of the vote. Sometimes democracy is as messy as Rumsfeld's bloody legacy and Giuliani's ghoulish post-9/11 posturing. And sometimes democracy means keeping your campaign promises.