Follow @SharonFGrigsby

Yesterday assistant city manager Jill Jordan revealed the reason the Hunt-Griggs-Rawlings idea for an important connector in the Trinity River floodway has gone nowhere since the plan was announced last August: City Hall has decided it's not safe for bikers and walkers to share a road used by maintenance vehicles.Here's the news report on yesterday's bizarre and confusing meeting of the Trinity River Corridor Project Committee.I could see where this briefing was heading as soon as city staff showed photos of a blinding dust storm stirred up, it said, by a maintenance vehicle on the road. Then came the several photos showing steep inclines along the proposed route. Lots of talk about not being able to enforce safe speed limits. A concerning picture was painted that in no way resembled the "occasional maintenance vehicles" that we had previously heard would be sharing the road with Dallas residents interested in actually using the floodway.Much is yet to be explained about the maintenance vehicles' use of the road. For instance, city staff came to the briefing with no specifics on how many vehicles we're talking about. But let's save all those details for another day.This is the overriding question for now: Why did Jordan and her team not raise the safety concerns last fall but instead simply stand by as Mayor Rawlings announced the trail plan?Here's what I fear: The enthusiasm for the trail idea emerged after Angela Hunt and others raised new questions about the Pegasus-Trinity-toll-road-Horseshoe equation. You may recall that after a long timeout, the mayor's office decided the Pegasus solution alone wouldn't solve congestion problems and the toll road was still necessary. (This newspaper supported the mayor's decision.)  But one piece of good news for those who would like to use some of the everyday amenities of the Trinity — as opposed to waiting for the Grand Plan — was the announcement of the new connector trail. That's an important 4.5 miles because it would run all the way from the Sylvan Avenue bridge to the Santa Fe Trestle in Moore Park. (Our newspaper also supported this idea — and in fact made a big deal about the importance of getting some recreational opportunities up and running in the Trinity area ASAP.)So was the trail proposal a bone thrown to Hunt so she would "shut up and go away" on the Pegasus-Horseshoe-Trinity fight? No doubt (although no one would really expect Hunt to "go away.") But was it a bone that City Hall agreed to, knowing that it would be yanked back out of reach? That's what yesterday's hearing looked like to me.I'm not into conspiracy theories, but in this case, I see few other explanations. The safety issue seems so critical and yet so easy to unpack. You don't announce plans this specific without clearing these basic questions up.Both our newspaper reporting last August and our editorial supporting the trail were clear that this was a dual-purpose maintenance/recreational road. Now everyone seems to want to express Big Surprise about that. The fact that committee chairwoman Vonciel Hill Jones said she wouldn't have supported the plan last August if she knew it involved vehicles and walkers/bikers on the same path is just insane.Not to mention why this whole issue is considered so top-secret that City Manager Mary Suhm and Jordan wouldn't even talk to our editorial writer about it last week.What happened yesterday stinks. 