
	After two decades of service, Natarena Parham-Cofield will no longer be able to make ends meet.
	She says if her employer, Long Island University, doesn't negotiate a fair contract with her union by Jan. 1, she will be under water.
	"I've been working at LIU for 22 years as a secretary at the sociology department, and I love my job," says Parham-Cofield, 41, who earned an MBA from Keller Business School and is a Ph.D. candidate at Walden University.
	"I understand that the school has had its own economic problems, but enrollment is up and we haven't had a contract since 2012," she says. "I take the 3 train from Pennsylvania Ave. in East New York each morning because I need this job that pays me $48,000 a year as I complete my studies. Three of my four daughters who are also students are still on my health insurance."
	But for the past year, Office and Professional Employees International Union (OPEIU) Local 153 has been paying part of the health insurance premium for Parham-Cofield and the 250 other LIU clerical workers because the university headquartered in progressive Brooklyn refuses to cover that portion or to negotiate a salary increase that allows union workers to offset the cost.
	"Once Local 153 stops paying for health coverage, I'll have to pay an additional $400 a month," Parham-Cofield says. "Our rent is also going up another $400. My husband and I just can't afford another $800 a month."
	These are the working-class struggles you seldom hear about in the hipsterized New Brooklyn, where trust fund babies who live five to a flat on their parents' allowances help skyrocket inner-city rents for struggling working families like Parham-Cofield's in a neighborhood like East New York.
	"We don't know exactly how much the new president of LIU, Dr. Kimberly R. Cline, earns, but the past president earned over $690,000," says Nick Galipeau, business agent for Local 153. "The average salary of an LIU Local 153 worker is $37,000. In January 2012, we started tough negotiations, but we were making progress. Our biggest sticking point was health insurance. We had agreed that employees would pay 18% of the health coverage if LIU offered a decent wage package to offset the costs. Then in January of 2013 they brought in a new regime, with new negotiators, and we've hit a brick wall."
	He says LIU's offer was a five-year contract with no wage increase in the first two years, 0.5% in years three and four, and a whopping 1% in year five.
	"Two percent over five years?" asks Galipeau. "And the workers would have to pay 18% of their health insurance, resulting in a major income decrease?"
	He said all of Local 153's counterproposals were rejected or ignored, so the union has asked for a mediator.
	"Local 153 has been supplementing our workers' health insurance for a year," Galipeau says. "We're not even asking for that back from LIU. We're not asking for retroactive pay. We just want a fair wage to offset these new health costs going forward. The faculty has supported us. But . . . asking workers earning $37,000 in Brooklyn in 2014 to pay 18% of their health coverage on a 2% raise over five years is insulting for a prestigious university where tuition is about $28,000 a year."
	"LIU and Local 153 are currently negotiating the terms of a new collective bargaining agreement," says Gale Stevens Haynes, the university's vice president, CEO and legal counsel. "As is the case across the entire country, the issue of health care is a main focus. LIU was recently informed that the health care plan offered to its secretarial and clerical workers through the Local 153 union will cease operating effective Jan. 1, 2015. LIU has been working to ensure that these employees can transition to the LIU health plan, without any lapse in coverage. Like most employers offering health care, LIU requires an employee contribution for health coverage. This has resulted in an understandably difficult transition for Local 153 members as they have previously enjoyed health care benefits without cost-sharing."
	LIU gives out the prestigious George Polk Awards to journalists, in which, "Judges place a premium on investigative work that is original, requires digging and resourcefulness, and brings results."
	Polk, who was murdered covering the Greek civil war in 1948, might well be embarrassed that the school that honors his memory dishonors its own workers with a 2% raise over five years and an 18% increase in health coverage costs.
	"All we want is a fair contract," says Parham-Cofield. "What they've offered just isn't fair. Come January, after 22 years at LIU, I just won't be able to make ends meet."
	dhamill@nydailynews.com