
	The Verrazano Bridge was the eighth wonder of the world for a kid of 13 when it opened in 1964.
	I was crossing the Verrazano on Thursday night, coming from the annual Dr. Theodore Atlas Foundation dinner that raises money for the sick and desperate of the forgotten borough, when a radio newscaster announced that Friday, Nov. 21, would mark 50 years since the bridge opened.
	I was living on Staten Island back then after moving from a Brooklyn tenement the year before to the Richmond Terrace Houses, aka the Jersey Street Projects. We'd moved to prebridge Staten Island in stages, my mother loading us like mules with lamps, an ironing board secured with old nylon stockings, and duffel bags stuffed with clothes, books, toaster, knickknacks. We'd haul this daily cargo on the rush-hour subway and ferry.
	Crossing the harbor we could see the distant Verrazano being constructed, a gargantuan feat of engineering that even allowed for the curvature of the Earth. The World's Fair opened in Queens foretelling of a science fiction future of men walking on the moon, home computers and pocket phones. It all seemed too far-fetched to be believed. But Staten Island natives grumbled endlessly about how "that goddamned bridge" would destroy the future of their rural borough of free-flowing traffic that my unhappy father called "a one-horse town."
	Fifty years later, all the predictions had come true.
	Although I lived on Staten Island, I kept my butcher boy job at Liberty Meat Market on Seventh Ave. in Park Slope, riding my bike to the now-defunct Brooklyn ferry that left me at 69th St. and Shore Road. Every time I rode that ferry, I'd gape up at the ironworkers scaling the Verrazano's massive pylons, cables and towers, connecting huge steel beams to the roadway in breathtaking midair like daring Marvel Comics heroes.
	It was, in fact, a marvel.
	In anticipation of the bridge opening, my butcher boss, Frank Tufano, bought a new home on Staten Island. A week after the bridge was dedicated, I sat in the passenger seat of Frank's new 1964 silver Cadillac as he purred across the 4,260 feet of what was then the longest suspension bridge in the world, with the power windows open to the chilly November wind to better view the sprawling harbor. The Manhattan skyline. Lady Liberty. The Wonder Wheel and Parachute Jump of Coney Island.
	Gulls wheeled at eye level, and tugs, barges and pleasure craft passed beneath us like bathtub toys. Then Frank paid a 50-cent toll that cracked open the gateway to the future.
	He'd traveled from his Park Slope store to his Staten Island home in about 20 minutes. "Beauty-ful," Frank said, astonished. "This is just f------ beauty-ful."
	He was one of tens of thousands who moved from Brooklyn to Staten Island across the Verrazano, causing a construction boom of new homes and shopping malls, clogged roads and snarling daily traffic jams on the bridge.
	While at Curtis High on Staten Island, I met a student named Danny Rooney whose kid brother Kevin became a welterweight Golden Gloves champ. He had a boxing stablemate named Teddy Atlas, a lean, tough puncher. My brother Brian came home from the Army, crossing the Verrazano in a 1949 Oldsmobile. He'd once trained under Cus D'Amato, who steered Floyd Patterson to a heavyweight belt. Brian would eventually send Kevin Rooney and Atlas up to live in D'Amato's Catskills training camp.
	Both Staten Islanders would help D'Amato train Mike Tyson to a world heavyweight title.
	Two years after leaving, we crossed the Verrazano back to Brooklyn. Then I commuted across that bridge every morning to Staten Island Community College before it became the College of Staten Island.
	In those days, a friend who'd worked as an ironworker on the Verrazano told me of the harrowing day he stumbled on a beam and began to fall to certain death. Another burly ironworker caught him by his tool belt. My friend dangled 228 feet above the Narrows before being hauled to safety. He hung up his hard hat that day and became a bartender.
	About 40 years later, living on Staten Island, he drove to the Brooklyn tower of the bridge, parked his car on the busy span, stepped out, scaled a fence and leaped inexplicably into the deadly Narrows.
	I think of him every time I cross the Verrazano, my eighth wonder of the world. As I did on Thursday night to attend the dinner for a renowned middle-aged ESPN boxing commentator named Teddy Atlas.
	A half-century after crossing it the first time.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com