Follow @SharonFGrigsby

Decades ago, I was done with the glittery, glorious talk of a Trinity River playground. I don't have the energy on a Friday afternoon to document all the variations I've heard in regard to this shimmering mirage, but the talk was already in full bloom when I arrived in the city in 1980. Maybe I'm just not enough of a visionary or dreamer, but when I crossed over the various bridges, I had a hard time imaging it actually happening.Sure enough, I was in the minority. The idea that stuck was the Trinity River Project, which voters approved in 1998. Even after that vote, I took the attitude of "I'll believe it when I see it" — whether that be the road or the recreation pieces. Even with the oddly discordant MHH bridge spanning the river basin (and some cool possibilities such as this and this), that area no more resembles the "Austin Town Lake-like dream" today than it did when we first saw those 1998 sketches.But from time to time, I see signs that maybe we'll get some quality-of-life improvements for just plain folks who want to use the parkland. One such moment was last August when Mayor Rawlings put his support behind cool hike and bike possibilities. Here's what the Editorial Board said about the idea — the brainchild of Angela Hunt and Scott Griggs — at the time.So as our editorial noted this morning, what happened to that plan? Why does no one want to talk about it?Is it possible that City Hall staff members dislike Hunt so much that they would drag their heels on something the mayor has mandated just so she couldn't point to that accomplishment before she goes out of office? We know council member Vonciel Hill, chair of the Trinity River Corridor Project Committee, definitely doesn't care for Hunt, so has she somehow managed to derail things?  Is the culprit uncovered in what Jim Schutze wrote today:The real agenda for the Trinity River Project is a semi-private highway to enable lavish redevelopment of land deliberately divided and sealed away from South Dallas ... [trails won't be built because] the partisans intend to keep the river downtown clean of citizenry so nothing will stand in the way of that road when they finally get a chance to build it.I have great respect for Schutze, but I've never bought into this particular idea of his. Yet at this point it makes about as much sense as anything else I've conjured up.It could well be that there's some reasonable explanation — or at least that's what I thought during the week Jim Mitchell and I have been working on this editorial. But why wouldn't city officials call us back and explain the reason? If not before, you'd think they would want to call today with some reasonable explanation.But all I've heard is crickets. Which is probably about all you hear over in the great Trinity playground as well.