
	The times finally have changed.
	So the police unions threaten a job slowdown because they think Mayor de Blasio's new decriminalized pot law that will save thousands of young people — including the kids of police officers — from lifelong arrest records for something as silly as weed is, well, reefer madness.
	I was a long-haired teenager on Hippie Hill in Prospect Park in 1967, the Summer of Love, when Brooklyn kids transformed the violent youth gangs of the late-'50s and early-'60s into passive flocks of flower children wearing love beads and peace symbols grooving on summer afternoons to "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" and Bob Dylan singing "The Times They Are a-Changin'."
	We'd furtively smoke weed on the grassy knoll near Bartell Pritchard Square, always looking out for cops who blatantly profiled hippies in a policy of stop-and-frisk.
	In our youthful optimism in those Day-Glo days we'd spin pipe dreams that one day pot buds would be as legal as a six-pack of Bud.
	You'd think authorities would've been happy back then that a new generation of New Yorkers was professing nonviolence. After years of gang wars in my neighborhood between the South Brooklyn Boys, Skid Row Boys and The Jokers, teens killing and maiming each other with zip guns, knives and ball bats, you'd think that our mayor, cops, prosecutors and judges would have been thrilled the new generation had literally smoked the peace pipe.
	Nah.
	The oldsters were too stoned on booze and machine politics power to count their blessings.
	Instead, cops made massive marijuana arrests of basically good kids who were passing joints the way their fathers passed beer at keg parties. Prosecutors pressed for convictions. Some kids wound up on probation or doing time with hardened criminals. Those criminal records for pot hurt a lot of good kids caught up in the hip peer pressure of their generation, preventing them from later becoming city, state or federal workers, or bonded on Wall Street.
	The draconian marijuana laws were a crime against my generation.
	And yet our last three U.S. Presidents smoked weed. So have most politicians and cops I know.
	I smoked weed back in the tie-dyed day but I soon switched to alcohol as my drug of choice because marijuana made me paranoid. When I went to Woodstock in 1969 I witnessed 400,000 young people openly smoking Tijuana Gold, Panamanian Red, Moroccan kif and hashish without fear of arrest. And without a single act of violence at the historic three-day event.
	Even the state troopers were in awe of the nonviolent pot heads of Woodstock Nation.
	As my colleague Harry Siegel pointed out the other day, the State of New York passed a 1977 law basically decriminalizing small amounts of personal-use marijuana. But few localities, including New York City, had the guts to enforce it. We kept arresting people for pot, giving good kids bad records.
	Meanwhile, alcohol — which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention connects to 80% of all violent crimes in the nation, and thousands of traffic deaths — remains legal.
	Incoherent.
	As for those pontificating that weed is a gateway drug to harder drugs, every honest substance abuse counselor worth his 12 Steps will tell you that the granddaddy of all drugs is alcohol. We tried Prohibition to cure the evils of booze. It only succeeded in making La Cosa Nostra rich and powerful.
	And now certain police union leaders are rumored to be threatening a slowdown because they oppose the new "leftist" marijuana policies of Mayor de Blasio. Excuse me, de Blasio was elected with 75% of the vote on a clearly stated progressive platform. He appointed Police Commissioner Bill Bratton who only rescued this city of almost 2,000 annual murders in 1992, cutting the homicide rate in half in his first year. The crime rate continues to decline under Bratton's second tour as commissioner.
	But, c'mon, smalltime pot busts waste the NYPD's time and budget.
	Does any parent in this city want a stupid mistake like a pot bust to follow his kid through life like a bad tattoo?
	As an aging hippie who remembers the terror of a cop approaching when you had a joint hidden in your sock, de Blasio's new pot policy is cause for celebration. I'd light up but I haven't smoked pot in the 45 years since Woodstock. I'd pop a Champagne cork, except I stopped drinking 23 years ago.
	But a half-century after Dylan sang his famous ballad, I'm happy that the times are finally changing.