
	On Monday I stopped for a red light on Northern Blvd. in Queens and glanced at the price of a gallon of regular gas at the corner station: $3.35.
	Pretty good.
	The radio newscaster announced that the Dow was opening at 17,362. Unemployment was at 5.9%, down from the 7.3% President Obama inherited from George W. Bush when he took office six years ago.
	Not bad.
	As promised in both presidential campaigns, Barack Obama has ended the ground wars in Iraq and Afghanistan started by President George W. Bush. As promised, Obama passed the Affordable Care Act, which got off to a disastrous start filled with computer glitches. But against all the doomsayers' predictions, Obamacare has become a major success, providing more than 10 million previously uninsured Americans with health coverage.
	The great Ebola epidemic of 2014, which suffered from vague protocols from the Centers for Disease Control and ham-fisted public relations in an election year, has so far claimed one — I repeat, one — life on American shores.
	Not bad.
	Obama has only himself to blame for appearing hesitant on a plan to battle ISIS after the disturbing filmed beheading of James Foley. Voters forgot in that stumble that Osama bin Laden was killed on Obama's orders. Or that the jihadist attack on four NYPD officers in Queens, the murders of two soldiers in Canada and ISIS beheadings of British subjects prove that radical Islam is an international problem that can't be solved only on Pennsylvania Ave. Or that these attacks, as vile and disturbing as they are, do not come close to comparing with Al Qaeda's attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on Bush's watch.
	Not good, but better than under the Republicans.
	Obama has not been a hugely successful President. But with an obstructionist Republican House that voted to shut down the government and seems clearly bent on having the first black President fail, Obama has accomplished more than expected. He saved the American automobile industry. He backed the bailout of Wall Street that saved the American economy. Under Obama, working families can now keep their kids on the parents' health insurance until age 26.
	The Democrats' biggest problem is a failure to sell their accomplishments as well as Republicans sell empty rhetoric.
	People are tired of the gridlock in Washington. Democrats can point fingers of blame at the Republicans all they want, but when the voters look for the traffic cop in the snarled, horn-blaring intersection, they see President Obama.
	The buck stops with him.
	And so Obama suffers a toxic 42% approval rating in the Gallup poll, which is four points higher than Bush's when he faced midterm elections in his second term in 2006. And that was two years before the economy tanked in September 2008.
	Not good.
	So it doesn't matter if we are no longer in a ground war, that gas prices are low, that Wall Street soars, that unemployment continues to drop, that millions more Americans have health insurance or that more kids can now afford college.
	You can have a very good product on the market, but if you don't know how to sell it, the public will turn its back and buy the stuff with a better ad campaign.
	Because of incumbent fatigue and a desire for change, midterm elections historically favor the opposing party of a sitting two-term President. But somehow, despite his accomplishments, the Republicans have sold Obama as an incompetent. And now that the Republican-wrecked economy has recovered under Obama, we are set to again elect the party that collapsed the economy in 2008 to run both houses of Congress.
	Not good.
	But damned good salesmanship.
	So I stopped on Northern Blvd. on Monday morning and filled up my gas tank while the $3.35-a-gallon price lasted. The next day was Election Day and it looked like the party that gave us $4-a-gallon gas back in July 2008 and two disastrous wars that got 4,000 brave troops killed and changed nothing for the better would be voted in to run both houses of Congress in 2014.
	Real bad.