
	Come blow your horn.
	I was running late last Thursday morning driving my kid to school through the streets of Queens with a car in front of me moving at the speed of bureaucracy.
	"I'm gonna be late," my son said.
	"This clown is slower than a glacier," I screamed.
	I honked. The guy didn't accelerate. "He has two speeds," I shouted. "Drop dead and rigor mortis."
	My speedometer read: 25 mph.
	And I suddenly realized that come Nov. 7, this was going to be the speed limit in New York City. Bloomberg banned smoking and trans fats and de Blasio was gonna make us the City That Never Speeds.
	Turning right onto three-lane Horace Harding Expressway, I passed the slowpoke, shot him a dirty look, and raced my kid to school just before the morning bell.
	I sat for a moment before pulling out, decompressing from the kind of New York minute that can kill you from stress or a reckless road accident. Maybe the guy in front of me wasn't the clown, I thought. Maybe I was. Maybe this 25-mph speed limit was a good one.
	I decided to experiment. I pulled away from the curb and snailed down Francis Lewis Blvd., activating cruise control when I reached 25 mph. Within 10 seconds, horns blared behind me. One driver passed on my right, flipping me the bird. A motorist on my left shouted, "You drive like a f-----g nun!"
	And then he roared off, literally fuming.
	I laughed, realizing I was him 10 minutes earlier. And I wondered how drivers who've endured $4-a-gallon gas, ticket blitzes and ever-mounting tolls would adapt to the new 25-mph law. So I ramped onto the Grand Central Parkway cruising at the 50-mph limit, which solicited more angry horn honking.
	I exited at Queens Blvd., nicknamed the Boulevard of Death, a live-action lethal video game of speeding cars that killed six pedestrians in 2013 across eight zooming lanes where motorists display their crazed international driving skills that last year also injured about 150 pedestrians and cyclists.
	I steered straight for the middle lane and locked in 25 mph.
	A police van from the 114th Precinct trailed me. But as I stuck to 25 mph, the cop driver passed me on the left, giving me an odd glance. He put a full city block between us. Now a Mack truck tailgated me, leaning on his loud horn. My 25-mph cruise control answered. More horn blowing. More 25 mph. A dangerous duel. Finally, the truck driver passed me on the right. When I stopped for a red light at 108th St., the same trucker parboiled beside me. He glared down at me.
	"Maybe you should put on your hazards, man," he said.
	"What for?"
	"Because you're driving 3 mother f-----g miles an hour."
	"Actually, 25."
	"Same s--t, a--hole!"
	The light turned green. He rumbled down Queens Blvd. as suicidal jaywalkers dodged speeding traffic. Now an Access-A-Ride van driver beep-beeped behind me. She was so impatient she passed me within a block.
	At 65th Place, a car service driver fell behind me as a string of green lights opened up the Boulevard of Death like a speedway. I cruised at 25. The car service driver blasted his horn and squealed past me on the left, flicking his fingers off his chin at me at the corner of 60th St., where on Oct. 9 at 1:30 a.m. a man was struck and critically injured by a speeding hit-and-run SUV. I cruised two more blocks to 58th St. as cars whipped past me on both sides at an intersection where last December a motorist and a motorcyclist were killed.
	At the next red light, I typed "Gracie Mansion" into my GPS. Soon I was crossing the Triborough Bridge, jolting the FDR south and exiting at 116th St. I inched down Second Ave. toward 88th St. My speedometer only climbed to 25 mph for one three-block stretch. I hit cruise control. And angry drivers looking to ride the brief rapids of this steel river of taxis, trucks and cars all blew their horns at me in furious unison as we passed along the Second Ave. subway construction trench.
	The cacophonous horns of New York were so loud and angry that I started to laugh.
	I turned left onto 88th St., cruising to East End Ave., which was eerily traffic-free. Inside Gracie Mansion lived Mayor de Blasio, who on Nov. 7 pumps the city's brakes to 25 mph in an effort to save lives. We might lose a few to road rage in the transition, but come Friday, it's the law.
	Happy trails.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com