
	For those who braved her wrath, no Halloween will pass without recalling the horrors of the femme fatale known as Sandy.
	Go ahead and roll out to the Rockaways, Breezy Point or over the narrow lanes of Gerritsen Beach. Then coast through rebuilt Coney Island, cross the ominous Narrows and wander over to wounded Midland Beach on Staten Island.
	You can still hear the trailing cackles of the Oct. 29, 2012, superstorm.
	You can still see the aftermath of the 80-mph wind that hurtled in off the Atlantic and roiled 14-foot swells that pounded our vulnerable shores in Zone A. You can still feel the lingering pain chiseled into the weathered faces of the hardworking New Yorkers walloped by the storm's rampaging destruction of their homes, dreams and lives.
	"Two years later, I'm still a man in a hole," says Aiman Youssef, who continues to run the Midland Avenue Neighborhood Relief food tent on the lot at 481 Midland Ave., S.I., where his house stood until big bad Sandy huffed and puffed and blew it down.
	"I still distribute food every day to about 180 people directly affected by the storm. Last December, I finally moved out of the tent into an apartment next door with the help of HUD. HUD runs out on Nov. 1. But God was good to me the night of the storm. I lost a home, but he spared my family. And so God's plan was for me to help others after the storm."
	Youssef leaves out that as Sandy's floodwaters raced neck-high down Midland Ave., he used a 100-foot orange extension cord to lasso and save several strangers. And although this 44-year-old Syrian immigrant can't swim, he also survived the lethal waters to save his dog, Samson, from drowning.
	Homeless by dawn, Youssef pitched a relief tent on his ruined lot, serving hot meals to fellow Sandy victims.
	"Today, my family back in Syria is in a town surrounded by ISIS," he says. "So by comparison I shouldn't complain."
	In June 2013 Youssef registered with the city's Build It Back program. What happened?
	"Nothing happened," he says. "All I ever hear from them are requests for more and more and more paperwork. There are hundreds like me in Staten Island, still displaced by Sandy. Waiting for Build It Back. So I distribute food donated by Trader Joe's. And I pray for my family in Syria."
	Paul Sarubbi, a city firefighter whose family owns the Tamaqua Bar and Restaurant and a 65-slip marina on Ebony Ave. in Brooklyn's Gerritsen Beach still feels Sandy's tailwinds.
	"My bar business is down 50% since Sandy," he says. "I had $40,000 worth of flood damage to my home. FEMA gave me $12,000. My bar had $100,000 in flood damage. You can't get flood insurance for a business in Gerritsen. So I know why people are too strapped to come out and spend."
	He says the average Gerritsen family man works at his regular job all day and on his damaged house by night.
	"On weekends maybe he installs new storm windows himself to save money," he says. "So he doesn't have the disposable income to eat out and have a few beers. Or he's just too exhausted. So business here suffers. Not just mine. Everybody's."
	Sarubbi says about 800 homes in Gerritsen are still empty, 400 in foreclosure, hundreds awaiting the city's Build It Back program to come through.
	"When they do, like two homes going up on my block, they rebuild on 13-foot platforms," he says. "Everybody's gotta climb 11 steps to enter the rebuilt homes. People are installing dumbwaiters. Old people are hurtin'. Business stinks. Yeah, even two years later, everywhere you look all you still see is Sandy."
	Still, many flinty Sandy victims, including Kelly Lotz, have refused to flee. When floodwaters rose to the second floor of her rented home in Midland Breach, she escaped with her boyfriend and two kids in a motorboat helmed like a biblical ark by a working-class hero named Pete Vadola. Vadola also saved some 200 others.
	"I lost all my furniture and family memorabilia and a pet chinchilla and a ferret," Lotz says. "But Midland Beach is our home. We rented a new place across the street. Our kids still go to PS 38. But if the city tells us to evacuate next time, I wouldn't be stubborn and stay. Sandy was no joke."