
	Here's a program that actually works, and now the funding has vanished like a deadbeat dad.
	"When I entered the Fatherhood Academy at LaGuardia Community College last year, I was a high school dropout trying to raise my 4-year-old son on my own," says Jesus Benitez, 22. "I worked endless hours for a caterer, a job with no future, and I had no emotional connection with my son. Today I have a high school equivalency diploma, I attend LaGuardia on a scholarship, and I am so close with my son, Mason, that it is almost indescribable. My entire outlook on life, the world and the future has changed."
	And for his son Mason, too.
	The Fatherhood Academy was established at LaGuardia in 2012 by then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg under the Young Men's Initiative. With a modest budget of $550,000, it targeted minority-group fathers between 18 and 24 — some single fathers, some not — who could become better fathers from classes in parenting and from educational advancement that could help secure good jobs to support their kids.
	This program tackled one of the greatest problems of the inner city — fatherless children who gravitate to the flashy corner drug dealer or gang leader for male guidance.
	"I grew up in Detroit and worked as a social worker in Harlem, and so I was thrilled to come in and run this program with David Speal at LaGuardia," says Raheem Brooks, head of the Fatherhood Academy. "It was established to help young fathers get GEDs, maybe into college and careers, and to make them better dads and role models in their own communities. Most want to be good fathers, but they don't have a point of reference because they had no fathers. They lack basic parenting skills. Many lack the education to get meaningful jobs or to even help their kids with homework."
	Since 2012, the Fatherhood Academy has enrolled 176 fathers. Of those, 136 graduated the parenting course, 56 received GEDs, 35 obtained internships, 79 found real jobs and 21 became college students.
	Now the Fatherhood Academy has been defunded. Everyone attached to it is crushed and mystified.
	Charles Elias, a spokesman for LaGuardia, said the program still has two full-time staff members through other funding sources, adding that the college "desires new revenues to sustain the program."
	There is no way to specifically calculate how much money cutting that half-million bucks might wind up costing the city taxpayer. But the price tag of the Fatherhood Academy equals about what it costs to keep 10 inmates at Rikers Island for a year. It's a program that helped turn dozens of aimless young fathers into taxpaying workingmen supporting their kids. Instead of tax consumers with kids on public assistance. Instead of absentee dads, these young men are now role models for their kids who watch their fathers go to work, earn a living and pay the bills as a template for life.
	The kids of 21 of those fathers watch their male role models work their way through college.
	There is no way to calculate what it means to the children of the 136 fathers who graduated the parenting course of the Fatherhood Academy just to have a father at the dinner table at night.
	Jesus Benitez, a Mexican-American raised in the shadow of Yankee Stadium, earned his high school equivalency diploma through the Fatherhood Academy and now attends LaGuardia Community College on a scholarship. And he is a Spanish-language heritage scholar in the LaGuardia Luce program.
	"I didn't grow up with a father," he says. "My mom worked two jobs, so I helped her raise my two brothers and sister in the South Bronx. But I had no male role model in my life."
	He dropped out of school when he became a father at 17. When he split with his son's young mother, Benitez wound up with custody, a kid raising a kid.
	"I didn't know how to be a loving father," he says. "I worked. I supported him. But I had no emotional bond. My dreams of college or a career ended. Then I learned how to become a father at the Fatherhood Academy. I also learned from Raheem Brooks and David Speal that I could be a better role model for my son if I attended college."
	We are defunding this program?
	C'mon, if City Hall won't refund the Fatherhood Academy, some of the City University's most successful minority alumni fathers could revive it with one fund-raising dinner.
	"Last year, I had a detached relationship with my son," says Benitez. "Today, my amazing son is in kindergarten and I'm in college. We eat dinner and do homework together every night."
	The city shouldn't become a deadbeat on this one.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com