
	There are things in the news that defy my understanding.
	I love cats. I have three. So I want the guy who kicked the kitty in Brooklyn punished. I was as offended as anyone that he didn't just kick the cat and send it sailing but that he posted a video of the assault on Facebook with a soundtrack of cackling laughter from sadistic pals.
	I get it that the Brooklyn district attorney's office isn't even offering a plea deal. This guy not only didn't have contrition for his barbaric act, he boasted about it. A guy who could do that to a defenseless animal is capable of doing worse to people. He's a violent threat to society. The worst serial killers often start out as animal abusers. He needs to be made an example of.
	But a few weeks ago, when Adrian Peterson of the Minnesota Vikings was charged with whipping his child with a tree branch, leaving welts on his inner and outer thighs, his buttocks, his scrotum, his calves and ankles, and stuffing leaves in the 4-year-old's mouth to muffle his screams, the team and the National Football League thought a one-game suspension would be adequate.
	Peterson claimed getting "whupped" himself made him a successful man. Other football players rushed to his defense, rationalizing that smacking children was part of Southern culture. I received disturbing letters on two recent columns against corporal punishment from parents who think it's fine to beat their kids. A appellate court recently ruled that corporal punishment is legal in New York State, as it is in 19 other states.
	Some 70% of Americans think spanking kids is OK.
	But kick a stray cat as Andre Robinson did in Brooklyn, or kill dogs as NFL quarterback Michael Vick did, and We the People demand jail time.
	I'm not saying the cat-kicker doesn't deserve as much punishment as allowable under the law for such a violent and inhumane crime.
	But I'm perplexed as to why there isn't as much public outrage when a child is whipped with a switch — which is appropriately named because when a 217-pound pro running back rips one from a tree and flogs his child in a special "whupping room," he switches from a man into a monster.
	I'm also perplexed about "security" in the nation 13 years after 9/11.
	A detail of NYPD cops was able to "protect" Neil Diamond from hordes of adoring fans at Erasmus Hall High School on Flatbush Ave. in Brooklyn Monday night, but we had less security for President Obama at the White House on Pennsylvania Ave. in Washington. An Afghanistan war veteran named Omar Gonzalez whom the NYPD would call an "EDP" — emotionally disturbed person — actually penetrated what is supposed to be the best-defended home on the planet, a place where you wouldn't believe Jason Bourne could gain entry in an action film.
	But then we find out that the Secret Service allowed Obama to board an elevator in Atlanta with an ex-con security guard who was packing a gun. The same Secret Service that put Obama on a stage at Nelson Mandela's memorial with Thamsanqa Jantjie, a schizophrenic ex-con who was faking sign language. Jantjie had an arrest record that included attempted murder, rape and breaking into a home. From where I stood in the Soweto soccer stadium, this crackpot was about 4 feet from the President of the United States. You'd think after their hooker scandals, the Secret Service would have come up with as much security for the White House as, say, a brothel.
	But it also perplexes me that another lone nut in Aurora, Ill., could basically cripple the nation's air traffic control system with a vengeful act of sabotage and a suicide attempt. That a Federal Aviation Administration contractor could ground thousands of flights nationwide by starting a fire in an air traffic control site in a Chicago suburb revealed a glaring vulnerability in our antiquated system.
	Then, with all our precautions, the Ebola virus somehow worms into the country. We're told by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that "we have stopped this virus in its tracks."
	Really?
	Because it's hard to have confidence when we couldn't stop a lone nut in his tracks from running into the White House. Or another one from causing mayhem in our skies.
	I'm perplexed.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com