
	Take a chill pill.
	There is not an Ebola epidemic in New York. The closest we have to an epidemic is the contagious social disease called Ebola Panic.
	The best medical treatment for Ebola Panic is pretty similar to how we dealt with terrorism after 911 — just calm down and live your life.
	The chances of any of us who are not actually treating Dr. Craig Spencer in that Bellevue isolation room contracting Ebola from him is now zero. If they follow the proper protective protocols, the chances of those who are treating him contracting the disease are also extremely slim.
	LIVE BLOG: LATEST NEWS ON THE EBOLA CASE IN NEW YORK 
	EBOLA IN NEW YORK: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
	If you have not come in direct contact with the bodily fluids of an Ebola victim while he or she is at the peak of his or her symptoms of high fever, diarrhea and vomiting, you will not contract Ebola. This includes a victim sneezing on you.
	But the best way to avoid getting sneezed upon by an Ebola victim is to steer clear of anyone running a high fever who is projectile-vomiting and suffering from a case of the runs.
	Any of the other fear-mongering you hear or read about Ebola is crapola.
	The worst side effect of Ebola Panic is that it spreads rampant ignorance and misinformation.
	Right now, Ebola Panic will be exploited in the Silly Season of electoral politics. With midterm congressional elections less than a month away, political opportunists and hate radio hosts and crazed bloggers will be spreading Ebola Panic like a prairie fire, trying to paint political opponents as Typhoid Marys.
	But to their credit, Gov. Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio came across in their press conference from Bellevue Hospital on Thursday night as two reassuring voices of reason, calming those suffering from Ebola Panic with clear, plain spoken facts about Ebola.
	It was probably inevitable that with 43% of the passengers from the Ebola-plagued countries of West Africa passing through JFK Airport that New York would eventually get a case of Ebola.
	But unlike Dallas, it looks as if our EMS first responders knew exactly what to do. The staff of Bellevue also seems well prepared.
	So far we have one Ebola case in New York City out of a population of more than 8 million. This does not an epidemic make.
	That single New York patient is in isolation and being treated by brave, dedicated and very skilled medical workers for a disease called Ebola that has no vaccine or known cure.
	There is a cure for Ebola Panic.
	Taking a chill pill.