
	Ebola can be transmitted by bats.
	Which is appropriate since the Ebola panic is totally batty.
	The hysteria reminds me of the full-blown frenzy of the early days of HIV-AIDS in the 1980s. Back then, a few hospital workers who were pricked by infected needles contracted the virus. But most people who died from AIDS were infected by unprotected sex or dirty junkie needles.
	Ebola is worse than HIV-AIDS in that it can be absorbed through the skin and kills quickly. But you must come in direct contact with an infected person or a surface the victim touched at the height of the symptoms of fever, nausea and diarrhea to risk catching the disease.
	Concerned about Ebola? Click here to submit your questions for Thursday's live chat with an expert on infectious diseases.
	The risk to the average subway rider, student or office worker is remote. Those in highest risk, according to Dr. Jay Varma, deputy commissioner of the city Health Department, are health workers.
	With a second American hospital worker in Dallas now infected with Ebola, I am reminded of those paranoid days in the late 1980s when AIDS sent a feverish shiver through the nation.
	"We need some perspective," says Varma. "In the early days of HIV-AIDS, rumors swirled that it was originating from Haiti, and so Haitians in general were stigmatized. Today, people from the continent of Africa are being stigmatized because of Ebola. This disease reached epidemic proportions in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone in West Africa in the past six months, resulting in some 4,000 dead. But Homeland Security tells us that about 150 people per day come into the U.S.A. from those countries, 43% through JFK. And we have not yet had a single case of Ebola in New York."
	He says what worries him most is that the Health Department is receiving a huge volume of inquiries from health providers in the grip of an Ebola panic.
	"Our fear is that the panic and stigmatization of Africans might result in someone who is infected being denied immediate and proper treatment," says Varma, "or that someone who recently traveled to the African continent is denied treatment."
	Just as Halloween reminds us that human beings are most afraid of the unknown, Ebola is scary because we know so little about it.
	Now, Ebola is the bogeyman climbing through every window in America.
	"Truth is we were all caught completely unprepared," one doctor tells me. "Almost no hospital in the country had proper Ebola protocols. No hospital in New York that I know of was properly prepared. You can cap-and-gown all you want, but if you don't know how to take off the caps and gowns, you can wind up infected like those poor nurses in Dallas."
	"We are learning from Dallas," says Varma. "We had been relying on the protocols of the Centers for Disease Control, but since Dallas, we are reaching out to all the New York hospitals on proper precautions for health workers, about isolating those who come in contact with infected patients for 21 days so that they don't travel or infect others."
	"There was an arrogance that Ebola only happens in West Africa," says the other doctor I spoke with, "just like we thought that terrorism only happened overseas — until 9/11. And just like 9/11, we were completely unprepared for Ebola."
	This same doctor says that every patient he treats for a fever these days fears Ebola. Hospital workers are terrified. This Halloween, Ebola is the scariest monster in the world.
	How worried should we really be?
	"Ebola is a terrible disease," says Varma. "There is no vaccine or cure. If you get it, you're pretty much on your own. We can only give you nutrients and hope your own body can beat it. But, unless you are a health worker, the chances of the average New Yorker getting Ebola is extremely slim. If you are a health worker and follow the protocols strictly, you will also be safe. If Ebola does come to New York, we do know how to contain it. Right now, the average New Yorker should be much more concerned about car accidents, obesity, diabetes, heart disease and flu than Ebola."
	Trick or treat.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com