Follow @SharonFGrigsby

Good for Dallas City Council member Carolyn Davis and TxDOT for addressing concerns raised by area residents about the loss of the Pennsylvania Ave. ramp off I-45. The concerns were raised in January, at the last of the public hearings for the first phase of work.As those of us who have been following this project for years know, most of the attention has been about the "new" S.M. Wright Boulevard. It was late in the game before stakeholders turned their attention to the C.F. Hawn extension/I-45 repercussions — which would result in the loss of the interstate's northbound Pennsylvania Avenue exit.According to Tom Benning's story this morning, "over the next few months, engineers worked with Davis, West and other leaders to find a palatable but realistic option." As TxDOT's own spokesman said: "That's why we have these meetings and hearings, to hear from the public."The lead of the news article characterized what happened like so: "An impromptu demand by Dallas City Council member Carolyn Davis at a public hearing appears to have added $20 million to the cost of the planned overhaul of S.M. Wright Freeway and Interstate 45 in South Dallas."With my "bridging the gap" hat on, here's how I would write about the news:  "TxDOT, council member Carolyn Davis and other leaders seem to have found a compromise to concerns that South Dallas residents expressed about the loss of access to Pennsylvania Avenue from I-45 — a compromise that TxDOT says is a manageable $20 million."Now about that pricetag: Benning notes in the story that one idea, creating different ramps, would cost $60 million. Another plan would have resulted in a three-year delay. He goes on to say: "The [$20 million] plan would add only a few months to the project's timeline. And officials said the costs weren't that high, considering the project's complexity and the scope of the proposed fix. The North Central Texas Council of Governments applied this week for a federal grant to cover the extra costs."I particularly liked what Michael Morris, the North Central Texas Council of Governments transportation director had to say: "It was decided to take care of those ramps to make sure the community knows we are operating in good faith."Access to Pennsylvania Avenue from I-45 is not just a small detail; it's a main artery of South Dallas. And exerting every possible bit of "good faith" is important in dealing with a highway nightmare that came out of some of Dallas' discriminatory past and basically choked to death a thriving part of South Dallas. Here's how the Rev. Gerald Britt describes it:S.M. Wright Freeway, named after the late, venerated pastor of Peoples Missionary Baptist Church, is a concrete scar that cuts through South Dallas and cut off economic and residential development over the years. This "flyover" highway has historically sent an ugly message: Unless you are unlucky enough to live there, there's absolutely no need to stop in this part of town.Again, good for Carolyn Davis, TxDOT and the others who caused this to happen. 