
	F inally, someone to cheer for in sports.
	When a postal worker named Jerry Costa walked to the stage to accept his Bayside Little League Coach of the Year award, it was thrilling to see that the kids clapped the loudest.
	There aren't many sports people you want your kids to applaud these days.
	Ray Rice uses the mother of his child as a punching bag . Adrian Peterson keeps a special room to whip his 4-year-old son. Like O.J. Simpson, Oscar Pistorius was found not guilty of murder.
	The "thrill of victory and the agony of defeat" now seem to play out in courtrooms as often as sports venues.
	So last Saturday, I cheered in Our Lady of the Blessed Sacrament Church in Queens after Bayside Little League Commissioner Bob Reid announced that the Coach of the Year Award was going to Jerry Costa. Costa is a guy who has volunteered for 10 years, coaching some 350 kids and teaching the fundamentals of America's pastime, which is a template for the game of life.
	"The best thing about Jerry is that he's more interested in every kid playing than in winning," Reid said.
	Costa accepted his plaque like a father cradling a child.
	"This award is about the kids," Costa said. "I learned from them that they all want to be better at the game. They want leadership. They want a fair chance to play. They want adults to teach them the right way from the wrong way. I teach them that there are no shortcuts. Only hard work reaps rewards. That victory is meaningless if you don't play by the rules. That's why when I read about guys like Rice and Peterson, it makes me cringe. I'm a Mets fan, but we're sure gonna miss Derek Jeter as a role model in this town."
	My kid played for three years for Costa. So I watched this colorful character, who cuts a Jimmy Cagney figure, dedicate more volunteer hours to teaching kids baseball than any other coach around. Costa holds two or three times as many practices as most other coaches.
	Costa has never earned a dime from coaching.
	"I run a team, not a business," he said. "Kids who aren't on my team are welcome to practice too. Some kids have more talent than others, sure. Some are faster. You can't teach speed. But you can insist on hustling. When my kids join the workforce, the one who's always on time and always hustles will get the promotions."
	Two years ago, to honor the memories of the 20 kids slaughtered at Sandy Hook Elementary School, Costa's team wore Newtown sleeve patches in an undefeated season.
	"Twenty victories for 20 angels," Costa said, voice cracking.
	When asked about Rice, Peterson and Pistorius, Costa frowned.
	"It's disturbing that guys who should be role models disgrace sports," he said. "But it starts at this youth level. This past summer, I saw two coaches get thrown out of a game for fighting. Pathetic. I see coaches scream and argue with umpires. Sad. That teaches kids to disrespect authority. That's like telling kids it's OK to back-talk a teacher, a coach, their parents ... If I argue with an ump, my kids will, too. Then all discipline breaks down. Including self-discipline."
	Costa makes sure every kid plays.
	"In our summer championship game, I batted all 17 of my kids in a universal lineup," he said. "We made the championship game as a team. So every kid on the team played. We lost a very close game to a top-notch team. But we lost as a team, and every kid will remember that he played."
	That's why after a week of star athletes making front-page news for all the wrong reasons, it was reassuring to see a working class hero named Jerry Costa hold up his Coach of the Year award.
	Especially when the kids clapped loudest.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com