
	Something is still wrong with the National Football League's thinking.
	Pro football has justifiably banned Ray Rice of the Baltimore Ravens indefinitely. This took way too long but at least the NFL acted after seeing the disturbing video of Rice slugging his then-fiancée Janay Palmer in February.
	But until Wednesday, the Minnesota Vikings and the NFL were going to let Adrian Peterson, who admits he flogged his son, play in this Sunday's game against the Saints.
	The Vikings and the NFL only blinked after being taken to the woodshed by big-money sponsors like Anheuser-Busch.
	This one's for you, Bud.
	But it remains baffling that the NFL somehow thought one vile offense here was worse than the other. It obviously thought knocking out a woman was a worse offense than whipping a 4-year-old boy.
	Both are equally barbaric acts.
	But there are still many people in this violent country who believe beating children — the most defenseless among us — is "good parenting." A recent New York State appellate court ruling upheld the corporal punishment of children as legal. In 19 states, it's legal to beat children. Until Wednesday, the NFL seemed to also think that it was OK for a star player who whipped his son to play football, while Ray Rice who beat his fiancée was banned for the foreseeable future.
	This is a sick double standard.
	A child has no recourse from being abused by the giants who raise him. A child is at the complete mercy of his adult abusers. Most 4-year-olds can't call the cops. A kid can't press charges.
	Adrian Peterson's little boy had no choice but to march like a prisoner into the "whupping room" to be lashed by his own father with a whistling tree branch called a switch until his little buttocks and legs scorched with violent welts.
	But until Wednesday, the NFL wanted to wait for justice to run its course before benching Peterson.
	On the night of Feb. 15, in the Revel casino in Atlantic City, Janay Palmer, 26, argued with her boyfriend, Ray Rice. As the squabble escalated in the lobby, Palmer stepped into an elevator with the raging, 206-pound running back. When the doors slammed, Rice punched her out.
	The NFL did not ban Rice from playing football until the video of him punching his would-be wife became public. The world could plainly see that Ray Rice behaved too much like a pig to ever run again with an NFL pigskin. Now Rice knows what it's like to be KOd by someone bigger than him.
	There are many unanswered questions about why it took the NFL so long to ban Rice. But more baffling is that until the NFL got sacked by sponsors on Wednesday, Peterson was going to be allowed to play for the Vikings on Sunday. If the NFL had its way, whipping a child would only cost a player one game while slugging a woman gets you a six-game ban.
	This is beyond the incredible.
	At what point did the NFL brass decide that the abuse of our most defenseless citizens, our children, is a lesser evil than the abuse of an adult? Why don't both offenses automatically violate the player-conduct rules established by the NFL?
	Even the great Vikings quarterback Fran Tarkenton voiced disgust. As did the governor of Minnesota. Radisson hotels pulled sponsorship. Nike dumped Peterson.
	But Anheuser-Busch made the last call that a child abuser is just as bad as a woman beater.
	NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell might need a Breathalyzer if it takes a beer company to help him finally make this sober judgment.
	After admitting he's not a perfect parent, Peterson tried to rationalize a 6-foot-1, 220-pound professional football player abusing a little boy with a weapon by saying, "I have always believed that the way my parents disciplined me has a great deal to do with the success I have enjoyed as a man."
	News flash: Real men don't whip children. When you fail at fatherhood, you are not successful.
	In a recent column, I cited some disturbing national statistics compiled by Safe Horizon, an organization that monitors child abuse — one in 10 kids is maltreated in America; 45% of them are under the age of 5; 1,593 children died in America from abuse in 2012; 80% of the abusers were parents.
	Ray Rice was properly banned by the NFL for beating a woman. Adrian Peterson should receive the same punishment for whipping a child.
	This one's for you, Bud.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com