
	She takes off from work every Sept. 11 to go to St. Paul's Chapel and pray for the nearly 3,000 dead.
	"I didn't know anyone who died in the towers in 2001," says Michelle Navas, 33, of Brooklyn, gazing up at 1 World Trade Center soaring into overcast skies. "But I watched many die. After the first plane hit, I was watching from Atlantic Ave. in Brooklyn, where the new arena is now. I could see big pieces of paper flying out of the windows of the towers."
	She pauses at the gates of St. Paul's 13 years to the day and swallows hard.
	
	"Someone in the crowd that day said that it wasn't paper," Navas says. "That it was people. Jumping."
	And 13 years later, the images are as fresh as the President's speech the night before saying there was yet more war to come in the Middle East.
	
	"When I heard it was people jumping, I fell to my knees and cried my eyes out," says Navas, a Nassau County highway cleaner. "My son was 1 year old. I couldn't get my husband, who worked in Manhattan, on the phone. Couldn't reach my mom. I was watching my fellow New Yorkers dying across the river and those images have never left me."
	A few days after the attacks, Navas traveled to St. Paul's just a block from Ground Zero to pray for the souls of those she watched die when the towers collapsed.
	
	"I have taken off from work every Sept. 11 since," she says. "I tell my boss this is a day of mourning for me. He's a military veteran so he understands."
	Across the street from the churchyard, Rich Fill, 68, wearing a Navy T-shirt, sits in front of the Millenium Hotel at 8:30 a.m.
	"Every Sept. 11, I take the 6:05 a.m. bus out of my hometown of Easton, Pa., which gets me into New York at 7:50," says Fill, who served aboard the Saratoga from 1965 to 1969. "And I take the subways here to pay my respects during the first minute of silence at 8:46 a.m., the time the first plane hit."
	
	Behind him, 33 civilian men and women of the Go Ruck Challenge have just finished a 12-hour trek on foot through all five boroughs with rucksacks loaded with bricks to simulate the weight of military gear, visiting every 9/11 memorial in New York.
	"I've been a United States Marine for 26 years," says Gunnery Sgt. John Croft. "My job in Go Ruck is to turn ordinary folks into alphas who can lead in this dangerous world. So we hiked through the night, reciting the names of the Sept. 11 dead. Our last stop is right here at Ground Zero, where we salute and honor the fallen of Sept. 11 and all those who served and fought in Iraq and Afghanistan since."
	At 8:45 a.m. in St. Paul's churchyard, Michelle Navas stands with hands clasped in prayer with dozens of others. At precisely 8:46 a.m., the Rev. James Cooper, the church rector, rings a large steel bell outside St. Paul's, which peals like the firehouse bells did 13 years ago in response to the attack.
	Cooper, on Thursday, reads the Prayer of St. Francis: "Lord, make us instruments of your peace. Where there is hatred, let us sow love; where there is injury, pardon; where there is discord, union . . ."
	
	Michelle Navas finishes her prayer, gazing up through the trees at the impressive 1 World Trade Center, sometimes called the Freedom Tower.
	"I'm very proud that New York showed the world that you can knock us down, but we get up and rebuild," she says. "I have yearly Sept. 11 photos of every stage of the Freedom Tower being built. My son, who was 1 in 2001, is 14 now. My second son is 11."
	She says her mother takes both kids by subway from Bushwick to charter schools in lower Manhattan every morning.
	"I want them to get great educations," she says. But I'm a mom, so I worry every single day that what I saw happen on Sept. 11, 2001, could happen again in lower Manhattan. Plus, I still see those poor people jumping. That's why I will never miss coming here to St. Paul's to pray for them on every single Sept. 11."
	
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.