
	Joan Rivers usually came through the back door of the West Bank Café on W. 42nd St. when she performed one of her shows in the Laurie Beechman Theater downstairs.
	"But last Wednesday, Joan arrived at the front door on 42nd St. because she had to use the bathroom," said West Bank's owner Steve Olsen, referring to Rivers' gig on Aug. 27 — the night before she slipped into cardiac arrest. "But first, she stopped to sign autographs and pose for pictures with fans on the sidewalk. Then she rushed through the front door, used the bathroom, hurried downstairs — where she ate her shrimp cocktail she always wanted in her dressing room."
	Then, Olsen said, Joan Rivers went onstage and performed another 100-minute show with the energy of a human nuclear reactor.
	"She killed," he said. "She had people wetting themselves, as always, trying out new material in her act here in what she called her laboratory. Her last show was as high-energy and hilarious as any other she ever gave in her career."
	Olsen said Rivers first came to his place five years ago and did a show in the 90-seat theater.
	"The room is designed for writers, comedians, actors to work out new material in front of other artists, a few tourists and regular New Yorkers," said Olsen. "After her first gig in front of a rollicking audience she said, 'This is the room I've been searching for my whole career. How's the food?'"
	Her booking agent said the food was very good.
	"Joan ate here after almost every single gig. Risotto balls and a glass of wine," Olsen said. "She was a very generous tipper. She bought the staff Christmas gifts. A total pro, but never a diva. When one of my maitre d's was leaving, she gave her a gift package and said, 'Here's some s--- for you.' She also palmed her a $100 bill, kissed her goodbye and wished her luck. Then she sat down, a little melancholy, and said, 'It's sad that you meet people you like so much in life and then one day they just move on and you know you'll never see them again.'"
	Olsen fell silent for a moment as the words sank in.
	Woody Allen, who came from the same Brooklyn streets as Rivers, called her "a lovely woman."
	"We began together," Allen said. "We had the same manager for a while, Jack Rollins. She always had amazing energy and drive, and over the years she did some of the most memorable one-liners in the business. Joan was a one-of-a-kind who really added spice to a pretty bland culture."
	That spice will remain in the air at the West Bank Café.
	"She electrified the room downstairs at every performance," said Olsen. "The restaurant kept the $15 table minimum and any food and drink tabs. Joan took the $45 door and donated every dime to two charities, God's Love We Deliver to help feed AIDS patients and to a seeing-eye dog charity. After every show, she'd take home a well-done burger for her own dog."
	Olsen laughs at the memory of Rivers sitting with friends and family at a rear table.
	"Most people respected her privacy when she was eating," said Olsen. "But the few times when fans approached her and staff tried to intervene, she'd wave them away and greet the fans with genuine warmth, pose for pictures, sign autographs. An outstanding woman."
	Olsen said Rivers' humor also helped him through a rough patch in his own life when he was on dialysis, awaiting a kidney transplant.
	"When I finally got my transplant in New York-Presbyterian, Joan sent me flowers with a card that read: 'Steve, Get well soon. Your staff is robbing you blind. Love, Joan.' She even had me laughing in the hospital."
	Olsen said he asked her recently why she still did so many gigs at her age.
	"She said because it kept her alive," Olsen recalled. "She said she lived for family, friends and her fans. In that order."
	Then on Aug. 27, Joan Rivers rushed through the front door of the West Bank to pee and hurried downstairs to make people wet themselves with laughter.
	"She killed onstage for her fans that night," Olsen said. "Then she had that throat procedure in the morning, went into cardiac arrest and was surrounded by friends and family at the end. I keep thinking about her saying how sad it was that you meet people in life you really like and then they go away and you know you'll never see them again."