Follow @SharonFGrigsby
I am big into antiques — if you saw my house, you might classify me as big into "junk." But I don't do garage sales.In fact, I'm certain I've shopped at a garage sale exactly once in my life — and only because I was walking out the back door of an antique store and ran smack into it.Likewise, I've never hosted a garage sale. Even when I broke down a large suburban household to downsize to a little Dallas cottage, I called Helping Hands to haul a whole garage full of stuff to its thrift store.All of that is to say that I have no dog in the hunt on the garage sales vote scheduled for next Wednesday at Dallas City Council. But I do have a point of view on the skewed arguments and logic that could derail what seem like sensible rule changes.Background: Two garage sales are allowed per residence per year. According to Rudy Bush's May 16 news story on this issue, the change is simple: Rather than requiring a $15 permit for each sale, the first permit would be free and the second would cost $25.This seems like a resident-friendly move. Unlike me, LOTS of people love to head out to garage sales — it's a weekend ritual. And allowing residents to host one sale per year without having to go through the permit dance seems, again, quite neighborly of the city. But after hosting one, odds are that law-abiding folks won't shell out the $25 to hold a second one.Makes sense, right? Apparently not to some — and this is an example of what makes me crazy when I watch Dallas City Council meetings. Dwaine Caraway was quoted in the May 16 story as disagreeing with the proposed change on the basis that he sees "sale after sale after sale on the same properties in his Oak Cliff neighborhood." He goes on, "We must discourage them from ... using their homes and neighborhoods as businesses."I don't disagree with a thing Caraway said. But that's where these debates get muddy — "make new and tougher rules" gets all the air time with no corresponding "is this enforceable/how will we enforce this?"There's a similar situation about a half mile from my East Dallas house. Most every weekend, a large backyard sale blossoms at the same residence, with clothing hung on the chain-link fence all the way around the property. The traffic congestion would probably bother me if I lived next door, so I'd call the city. But I fail to see how allowing one-time garage sales to go off without a $15 fee increases the number of "serial sales" like this one on Lindsley that are taking place despite the current rules.Seems to me that the garage sales story is a perfect example of how a good idea can get trampled in the white noise of peripheral arguments.