
	FERGUSON, Mo. — One step forward, two steps back.
	When I arrived at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport on Thursday, workers at the rental car counter were debating the fatal shooting of Michael Brown.
	"Tony probably won't talk to me for a year," said one female worker to my counterman, "just because I told him let's wait until we have all the facts before we condemn this cop who did the shooting."
	Ferguson was a town on the precipice. The QuikTrip store had been torched. Looters smashed the windows of the local chop suey and barbecue joints. Elderly women lamented being held prisoners in their own homes by tear gas. Citizens, whites and blacks, demanded to know the name of the cop who shot 18-year-old Brown.
	You could almost hear the ticking of a time bomb ready to explode Ferguson into the kind of rioting we have not seen since Los Angeles erupted after the cops who beat Rodney King were found not guilty.
	Then one man with a beating heart beneath the shiny star on his breast came to a Ferguson under siege and turned it into a lesson in American civics.
	Before night fell on Thursday, Capt. Ron Johnson of the Missouri Highway Patrol had been given superseding jurisdiction of Ferguson by Gov. Jay Nixon, marginalizing Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson.
	Chief Jackson on Friday finally named Darren Wilson as the cop who shot Brown, and then released a surveillance video reportedly showing Brown snatching a $48.99 box of cigars from Ferguson Market and Liquor and shoving a storekeeper.
	Yahoo News published the first photo of Wilson on Saturday.
	Jackson would admit later that Wilson did not know about the robbery when he killed Brown after stopping him for "walking in the street and blocking traffic."
	I stood outside the 911 Hair Salon watching this deeply moving tableau of peaceful dissent borrowed from the best days of the transformative 1960s.
	"I just hope it lasts," said Eliard Lay, 35, of Ferguson. "I hated the looting as much as I hated what the cops did. This right here tonight is cool. But if we want change, it has to last after Mike Brown is buried and y'all are gone. It's good that Gov. Nixon and Jesse Jackson and Ron Johnson came here.
	It didn't last. By midnight, many of the peaceful protesters had gone home.
	Then after midnight came the looters, a tiny percentage — amid the good citizens — of common criminals who couldn't care less about Brown or a better Ferguson. They broke into at least five stores. Some of the remaining protesters formed a human barricade of citizens and police in front of Ferguson Market and Liquor to prevent the looting.
	They did.
	On Saturday afternoon, Nixon declared a state of emergency and imposed a curfew in Ferguson. And now, we all brace ourselves for Sunday, when the Rev. Al Sharpton returns to town to host a march.
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.