
	I wanna get a base hit off Doc Gooden.
	Or Johnny Franco.
	That might happen Aug. 19 at the Brooklyn Cyclones' MCU Park when I play in a celebrity softball game alongside Gooden, Franco, Boomer Esiason, Craig Carton, Elvis Duran, Steve Schirripa, Roseanna Scotto, Greg Kelly, former boxing champions Paulie Malignaggi and Mark Breland, and Cat Greenleaf from NBC's "Talk Stoop."
	OK, I hear ya. If I'm considered a celeb then People magazine is in trouble. But when I was invited, I jumped at the chance to participate in the charity game preceding the New York-Penn League All-Star Game.
	A portion of the proceeds will go to Carton's favorite charity, the Tic Toc Stop Foundation for Tourette's syndrome.
	One cool thing to mark on your calendar is that at the Cyclones game this Thursday, two fans who have already bought their tickets will be randomly selected to play in the celebrity game with the Mets greats and true celebs.
	In the meantime, I'll be booking time at the Bayside batting cages this week to get in my first softball swings since, well, before the Mets won their last World Series in 1986.
	I'll also be going to Cunningham Park, where my son's old baseball coach, Vic Nacinovich, will be giving me batting and fielding instructions.
	Then I'm gonna do some running. I haven't run for anything but a taxi in two years — not since I agreed to participate with Curtis Sliwa in a Police Athletic League stickball game between the FDNY and NYPD in downtown Brooklyn. I could still hit the ball, but after running the bases for the FDNY, I had shin splints and muscle spasms that I thought would put me in a wheelchair.
	So I'm hitting the road in advance this time with my teenage son, walking and running until my heart feels ready to explode from my chest like a scene from "Alien."
	My kid played in MCU Park last year with his Bayside Bulldogs summer baseball travel team. I remember sitting behind home plate and looking out at that sparkling emerald on the Coney Island shore and being rattled by the immensity of a pro baseball field.
	It looks even bigger when a kid who used to sit on your shoulders is shagging flies in right field.
	It will seem twice that size when I walk to the plate and look to the mound and see Doc Gooden. Or John Franco.
	OK, so maybe a base hit is pushing it. Like Rocky just wanted to go the distance with Apollo Creed, I'll settle for just getting the bat on the ball against Gooden or Franco.
	I've never met Gooden, so he might not be too kind to me.
	But I've met Franco several times at my late best friend Ray Garvey's comedy club in Bay Ridge and have interviewed him a few times about his favorite Mets charity, Tuesday's Children.
	"I'm thrilled to be part of the New York-Penn League All-Star Game in Brooklyn," Franco says. "I grew up just down the road from the ballpark, so I look forward to any opportunity I have to get back to the old neighborhood. I'm also excited about the chance to help my friend Craig Carton raise money for his Tic Toc Stop Foundation. The work he does to help kids dealing with Tourette's is truly amazing. Plus the softball game is also featuring local guys from the NYPD, FDNY, DSNY and correction officers. As a lifelong New Yorker, I know how important the work of those groups, and the rest of our civil servants, is to our city. So I love when we get to shine the spotlight on their efforts as well."
	That's put me on a level playing field with Franco.
	So, if Gooden strikes me out, I'm hoping I can do a little Black Sox scam Brooklyn-style with my fellow native Brooklynite Franco. We are both sons of working-class fathers. And we're both public housing kids.
	If Gooden makes a fool out of me at the plate, I'm hoping I can swing a deal with Franco to lob me a gift-wrapped hittable pitch at MCU Park to give me Brooklyn bragging rights for life.
	So in the next week, I'll be in training for the long walk from the dugout to home plate on the evening of Aug. 19 at MCU Park to look out at the mound and into the eyes of Doc Gooden.
	Or John Franco.
	I hope they remember it's a charity game, because I'm gonna need all the charity I can get.