
	Talk about the law being an ass.
	A state appeals court has said: Go ahead and spank your kid.
	The New York Appellate Division ruled on July 19 to overturn a child abuse case against a Long Island man who spanked his 8-year-old son for cursing at a party. He was also accused of beating the child with a belt on his bare buttocks and legs when he got him home.
	The court ruled that the allegations involving the belt were unsubstantiated. Of course they were. It was a little kid's word against an adult's.
	"The father's open-handed spanking of the child as a form of discipline after he heard the child curse at an adult was a reasonable use of force and, under the circumstances presented here, did not constitute excessive corporal punishment," the four-judge panel ruled in a unanimous decision.
	It gets worse.
	The Daily News on July 20 reported that a federal appeals court in California ruled last year that a woman who hit her 12-year-old daughter in the rear with a wooden spoon should not be labeled a child abuser. Another federal panel in Florida found that a single spank does not qualify as domestic violence. And the Minnesota Supreme Court cleared a father who hit his 12-year-old son 36 times on the upper thighs with a wooden paddle, ruling that spanking isn't necessarily abuse.
	Somebody smack me, please, because I must be hallucinating.
	How can we forget this soon?
	In January, during a brutal snowstorm, I attended the funeral of Myls Dobson, 4, who, according to a June 23 murder indictment against his baby-sitter, Kryzie King, 27, was "repeatedly assaulted, including binding his hands and feet, striking him with an electrical cord and belt buckle . . . and burning him with a hot oven rack."
	When the tortured and starving child dared to ask for food, he was locked outside on a freezing terrace until he wound up in a coffin the size of a toy chest at Corinthian Baptist Church in Harlem.
	The kind of savagery that Myls Dobson suffered often starts with a spank on the bum.
	How could any court ever let potential child abusers get a sanctioned foot in the legal door? How should this ruling be interpreted? Is the acceptable "open-handed spanking" of a child the same from a 100-pound mom as it is from her latest 260-pound boyfriend?
	How can the court say that our most defenseless citizens, our children, are fair game for potential sickos who might get sexual gratification out of spanking the bare bottom of a little girl or boy?
	How can our assault laws not apply equally to all people, even our little people? And who will be allowed to do the spankings? Just parents? Or step-parents, too? Significant others? One-night stands? Grandparents? Uncles? Aunts? Siblings? Baby-sitters? Teachers? Camp counselors? Coaches?
	According to Safe Horizon, an organization that monitors child abuse, one in 10 kids is maltreated in America; 45% of maltreated kids are under age 5; 1,593 children died in America from abuse in 2012; 85% of those fatalities were white children and 80% of the abusers were parents. The gender breakdown of abusers was 45.3% male and 53.4% female.
	Cool, now let's make it "reasonable" to beat the kids.
	Is this ruling in honor of child victims like Nixzmary Brown, who in 2006 was bound, beaten, and molested by her stepfather and had her head smashed into a bathtub to end her little life? Or is it for Myls Dobson, who prosecutors say "died in unimaginable pain"?
	"This court is not the last word on the matter," says Christopher McKniff, a spokesman for the city Administration for Children's Services. "I'm not a lawyer, but I believe corporal punishment will still be decided on a case-by-case situation."
	But this ruling sets a scary legal precedent and seems to be following a national pattern of making corporal punishment of children acceptable.
	The law is an ass that needs spanking.