
	Ryan's son suggested they eat in Bareburger.
	Ryan drove along Fourth Ave. in his native Park Slope gazing up at block after block of gruesome new condos erected since he moved out of Brooklyn 15 years earlier.
	They were built to accommodate the stampede of yuppies, hipsters, literati and show people into the "new Brooklyn."
	Ryan stopped for a red light near Sackett St. and stared up at a monstrosity that looked like it was designed by a bored kid with Legos and the Brooklyn House of Detention as a model. He mentioned to his son, Rory, 14, raised in Bayside, Queens, that if this was modern architecture, he'd rather live in the roachy Brooklyn tenement of his childhood across from the Ansonia Clock Factory.
	"'Modin?'" teased Rory, forever policing his father's Brooklynese. 'Factry?' Wuz dat really da way dey tawked in yore good old Brooklyn, Dad?
	"Shut up, squirt," Ryan said. "You think you're so smart. You'll get a knuckle sandwich instead of this yuppie burger you want me to try."
	Rory burst out laughing. "Shaddap? Sammich?' I don't dink I'm too smahhht to wanna eat Bareburger, but I dink you sound like yuh from a Brooklyn of anudder centry, daddy-o."
	The light turned green and Ryan peered at the new arena on Flatbush Ave.
	"At least the Barclays Center is an imaginative looking joint," Ryan said. "It blends in nicely on Flatbush Ave."
	"'Flatbush Avna?' Da Bark Lee Centa?' And a 'joint' is something you make in plumbing or carpentry, Dad. Not a place."
	"They just opened a place called the Taco Joint in Bay Ridge, brainbox," Ryan said.
	"Den dey musta opened it fuh yuz guys who rememba da Brooklyn Dodgiz."
	"In the old days, a wisenheimer like you wound up in a funeral parlor for mocking the way a guy talks," Ryan said.
	"'Wisenheimer? Fewnril pahlah?' Who calls a funeral home a parlor, Dad?"
	"In the old days, if your grandmother died, she wanted to be waked her in her own parlor. I guess the phrase stuck."
	"'Granmudda?' And it's 'her,' not 'huh.' News flash, Dad: It's 2014. Nobody gets waked in his or huh pahlah anymore."
	Ryan drove up to Seventh Ave., searching for a parking spot near Bareburger, which was as hard to find as another aging native who still spoke fluent Brooklynese. He snagged a meter just as someone pulled out.
	He studied the Bareburger menu that bent over backward into yoga contortions to tell you everything was grass-fed, all natural and organic.
	"This is like reading a doctor's note," Ryan said.
	"You don't like eating healthy, Dad?"
	"Healthful," Ryan corrected. "People are healthy. Food is healthful. Got you there, you little language Nazi."
	The waitress came and Ryan ordered a turkey burger, fries and a diet Coke.
	"Toikey boiga?"
	"C'mon, now you're exaggerating," Ryan said.
	"Ezzageratin'?"
	"Let me explain something to you," Ryan said, pointing his fork. "The state Court of Appeals just ruled that parents can beat their kids again. Just like in old-school Brooklyn. Before my people were referred to by the Bareburger burghers as 'leftovers.' You keep running smart with the mouth on your old man's lingo, I'm gonna rip open a can of whup-ass on you. And all your sugar-free ketchup and preservative-free mustard and stevia-sweetened diet sodas won't get me a criminal record."
	"Esplain? Smahhht. Mout? Catchup? Mustid? Recid? Soder?"
	The food arrived. They dug in.
	"Look, kiddo, when I grew up on Seventh Avna, there were only a few Greek diners and a coupa pizza joints and Irish saloons and everybody tawked like me. If you went to a place called Bareburger, it was a strip club. Sorry, if I embarrass you, but I yam what I yam."
	Rory smiled.
	"I don't wanchoo to change a single woid, Dad," Ryan's son said. "But do you want me to tawk like you?"
	"No."
	"How's the toikey boiga?"
	Ryan hated to admit it. "Duhlishis."
	"My boiga's duhlishis too. Pass da mustid."
	dhamill@nydailynews.com