
	Patrick Lynch is a passionate union leader for the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. He has a duty to advocate for a cop who gets jammed up.
	But his news conference the other day went beyond defending Police Officer Daniel Pantaleo, the Staten Island cop who wrestled Eric Garner to the ground with a barred chokehold while trying to arrest him for selling untaxed cigarettes.
	The medical examiner's office ruled Garner's death a homicide.
	Like a crafty illusionist, Lynch tried to misdirect blame for the death to the medical examiner, the mayor, the police commissioner, the news media and civil rights activists. But I've been hearing varying viewpoints since the morning after Garner's death when I interviewed his widow, Esaw Garner.
	Those comments are as important here as those of public figures and the press.
	When I wrote about a need to rid the NYPD of "cowboy cops," Manny Jeckel replied:
	"How in hell did a cop like this (Pantaleo) ever get past the psychological tests before getting a badge? Maybe those tests are not stringent enough. . . . One incident like this will give all of those citizens in NYC cause to be suspicious of all police officers, and sad to say that will include those (officers) who really belong on the force. A way must be found to get rid of the lunatics on the force once and for all."
	Some readers took offense at my calling Pantaleo a "coward" for putting Garner in a chokehold from behind. Frank Libretto wrote:
	"Can you please tell me why he is a coward? The grossly obese male who has an extensive arrest background was resisting a lawful arrest after breaking the law again. . . . Anyone who sits behind a keyboard and calls people names is what I consider to be a coward."
	Andrew Murray weighed in:
	"As usual, you and your liberal friends have their shorts all twisted without all the facts. You want these cops jailed, crucified, tarred and feathered. . . . By the way the chokehold is not illegal, it is against PD policy — NOT ILLEGAL. . . . What were the officers supposed to do when this 350-pound-plus man resisted arrest? Say pretty please?"
	Kevin Cregan wasn't as genteel:
	"You really are a liberal ass-kissing piece of s---," he wrote. "I wish for one day you need NYPD assistance and hope you receive NO HELP at all!!"
	After I wrote a column asking for perspective and saying that most of the 35,000 NYPD cops do heroic work, a woman named Millicent responded:
	"Thank you for your partially balanced article, but as a black mother with two black sons, some of the cops are racist. . . . I pray that my two wonderful professional sons who are law-abiding don't come upon the wrong cop out there. . . . I pray for peace, and that the police will come to treat the public with respect and that will aid them to clean up the real criminals."
	James Quinlan, a retired detective who worked narcotics for 14 years and was involved in more than 2,000 arrests, wrote:
	"I am writing to ask why no one is asking about Mr. Garner? Here is a guy with 30 prior arrests, you think he would grow up and learn his lesson. He had six children but never had a job to speak of. I guess us taxpayers will do what real men do and that is work hard and pay our way and take care of 'his' family. What responsible person has no job but keeps having more and more kids?"
	And Bill Shelton of Harlem offered this gem:
	"Starting today, I'll make it a goal to say thank you to a different NYC police officer every day. I was becoming overly prejudicial to all of NYPD as a result of Eric Garner's death. As a 6-foot-2 black man, with two sons larger than me, the homicide resonated with me as I believe that Mr. Garner's race and his size (in that order) were factors in the use of that chokehold. That death was a horrific reminder of the precautions that I, and my sons, must continually take to defuse interactions with the police that most other large men never have to consider. That reminder led to negative feelings to all NYPD and that isn't fair to the police."
	Which says it all.