
	The punk cop wearing No. 99 in the disturbing Eric Garner video can never wear a badge in this town again.
	No way can you look at that video of Garner being yoked in a chokehold from behind by a plainclothes coward without saying this guy belongs in an orange jumpsuit.
	It's like watching a snuff film.
	That two-bit bar bouncer with a badge needs to be bum-rushed off the NYPD and indicted for manslaughter.
	The other cops who pounced on Garner as he pleaded for his life like a drowning man should also be charged. And the ones who stood by and did nothing should also be investigated for dereliction of duty because they are witnessing a crime in progress of a man being abused with excessive force without trying to stop it.
	That video obtained by the Daily News is disturbing proof of how far we have not come since Rodney King and Abner Louima and the last election where Bill de Blasio campaigned for an end to a double standard of justice in a two-tiered city.
	This crime — and that's what it appears to be — cannot go unpunished.
	Watch that video and you see that Eric Garner, clearly unarmed, clearly not threatening, is trying to explain to police that it's unfair that he's being targeted for arrest by cops even though this isn't a scene of chaotic lawlessness.
	Garner is upset. But not out of control. Saying that the local cops have a history of harassing him. That it has to stop. Starting today. That he had just broken up a fight.
	But the cops are determined to arrest Garner. He pulls away from one cop who reaches for him. Garner does not swing at a single cop. He doesn't attack, shove or threaten any cop. He produces no weapon. He's agitated but sober. Is he resisting arrest?
	Yes.
	But, c'mon, a rookie crossing guard with some common-sense discretion could have defused this minor disturbance.
	But here comes big, brave, burly No. 99 from behind, administering an illegal and potentially lethal chokehold on obese and asthmatic Garner. The same kind of deadly chokehold that was used by another rogue cop named Francis Livoti in 1994 on a 29-year-old security guard named Anthony Baez, killing him because Baez accidentally hit the cop's car with a football during a game of catch.
	Livoti was eventually convicted in federal court of violating Baez's civil rights and sentenced to 7 1/2 years in prison.
	The Garner video is Exhibit A in what could mean seven-to-15 years for No. 99.
	After he and four other cops wrestled Garner to the ground, No. 99 grinds Garner's face into the sidewalk like someone mashing a puppy's face into poop on the carpet. All while Garner wheezes for air, pleading for life itself.
	I have written here many times of heroic cops and their selfless, ultimate sacrifices for our city. I mourned with 8 million others when Officer Pete Figoski gave his life bravely to a punk's bullet in the 75th Precinct two weeks before Christmas three years ago, leaving four shattered kids.
	I gazed into the hole in the city's heart at Officer Dennis Guerra's funeral as his widow and children watched his coffin carried from the requiem Mass in Rockaway after he perished trying to save lives in a Coney Island fire.
	I felt honored witnessing Commissioner Bill Bratton and cops of the 103rd Precinct commemorating the 26th anniversary of Officer Eddie Byrne's assassination by coward crack gangsters.
	But when bad cops disgrace the same badge those brave cops died honoring, they dishonor them too. And the bad cops should be bum-rushed right off the force.
	Yes, as Bratton said after the Garner incident, a full investigation needs to be conducted. The cop who choked Eric Garner and those who didn't stop him and instead piled on him deserve their day in criminal court.
	But just as the so-called Mafia cops deserve their prison cells, and Justin Volpe who sodomized Abner Louima in a precinct bathroom belongs in his cage, the Garner video of No. 99 putting Garner in a chokehold is the kind of visual kindling that could ignite a harmonious, calm city into racial flames.
	It's good that two of those cops have already been given desk jobs. And that the Internal Affairs Bureau and Staten Island DA Daniel Donovan are investigating Garner's death.
	Meanwhile, No. 99 should be seated at a desk facing a poster of Francis Livoti in a prison jumpsuit so he can think what it might feel like to worry about who's coming from behind you in a prison yard.