
	He stands on the trimmed, green grass under the blue summer sky watching high-school kids shag fly balls behind the fences of Preller Baseball Fields in Bellerose, Queens. The rest of the crazy world is suspended in time.
	"Baseball keeps me young," says Brother Robert Kent, 68, who has been coaching baseball for St. Francis Preparatory School, the largest Catholic high school in America, since 1968.
	Last spring, Brother Rob notched a remarkable 600th win. This week, as the Mets sputter a few miles away, he's running the St. Francis Prep Summer Baseball Camp, observing the incoming freshmen seeking a coveted spot on the team.
	"It's actually 609 wins and 282 losses," Brother Rob says, scrutinizing fly-ball drills. "The 600th came in a 4-2 win against our arch rival Holy Cross, which I'm supposed to play down, but it made it sweeter. But there is no iron team or iron coach. As head varsity coach, I pick the team, but over the years my assistant coaches did most of the work. Guys like Al D'Andrea, Robert Williams, Justin Kelly, George Sieber, Neil Wasserfall, Jack Phelan and Wally Heckel, whose father played in the Dodgers organization but was beat out by Maury Wills."
	Brother Rob walks around like he's lost in prayer, but as head of the entire baseball program, he notices every player and has a memory like an elephant on ginkgo biloba.
	"See those twins there?" he says. "When their father visited Prep with them last semester to evaluate the school, I said, 'You're Betancourt. You beat my Prep team for the championship in 1983 with a double for McClancy High.' He was surprised I remembered him. Now his kids are in our camp. Watch the way his twins throw. Identical. Interesting, huh?"
	In 46 years at Prep, Brother Rob has coached the children of 55 of his former players and six of their grandchildren.
	"I played CYO (Catholic Youth Organization) baseball for Holy Name Grammar School in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn," he says. "I grew up a Brooklyn Dodgers fan. Hung out in Otto and Ray's candy store. Watched Bobby Thomson hit his home run on the black-and-white TV through the window of Farrell's Bar on Prospect Park West. Played baseball in the Parade Grounds, where Joe Torre and Joe Pepitone played."
	His older brother Eddie became a Franciscan brother. "I followed him to St. Anthony's Juniorate in Smithtown," he says. Then Brother Rob attended St. John's University.
	"I went back and coached the Holy Name CYO baseball team," he said. "Then in 1968, as a new brother, I was assigned to St. Francis Prep when they were still in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. I taught African and Asian studies and coached the JV baseball team. I never left, even after Prep moved to Fresh Meadows, Queens."
	That first year in Brooklyn, the school was short-staffed, so Brother Rob was also assigned to supervise the varsity football team. Justin Kelly, now Prep's varsity football coach and JV baseball coach, was a senior on the football team at the time.
	"I saw this new Brother Rob on the football bus, looking puzzled," Kelly says. "I told him to sit next to me and I'd show him what to do. He later became athletic director and head of the baseball program. I graduated and came back as a coach, and 46 years later we're good friends and colleagues. "
	Brother Rob says baseball can both break your heart and tickle your funny bone. "My brother Eddie played JV baseball for Brooklyn Prep," he says, smiling. "He got a base hit, then stole second without getting the steal sign. His furious coach called time and demanded he 'steal' first from second on the next pitch. Eddie, who became a tennis coach for St. Francis Prep, never forgot. When I coached St. Francis against Brooklyn Prep years later, the same coach was using the same signs. Eddie gave them to me. The Brooklyn Prep coach thought I was a genius."
	He chuckles as he assesses his new crop of ballplayers.
	"Every spring, a new team comes to life. And I watch these great kids play their hearts out for the school. The kids change, but the game of baseball, especially since we went to wooden bats, stays the same. Baseball keeps me young."
	Young enough to work toward 700 wins.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com
	On mobile device? Click here to watch video.