
	He dodged a bullet with his name on it.
	A silent assassin called prostate cancer almost prevented Vinny Pastore from making it to opening night as gangster Nick Valenti in "Bullets Over Broadway."
	Pastore, who achieved stardom as Big Pussy in "The Sopranos," says he thought his Broadway stage role of a lifetime had been "clipped" the day he went for a routine check-up from Dr. Stephen Trauzzi in New Rochelle.
	"In March 2013, I auditioned for Woody Allen and director Susan Stroman, and I got the part," he says. "It was gonna be a demanding role, lots of singing and dancing, climbing a ladder every night. I was 66, so I went for a check-up and my doctor said my PSA was 12, really high."
	Dr. Trauzzi sent him to Dr. Seth Lerner, a urologist in White Plains.
	"Dr. Lerner did a biopsy and said I had prostate cancer," Pastore recalls. "I says to him, 'You can't do this to me, Doc, I'm gonna be in Woody Allen's 'Bullets Over Broadway' on Broadway."
	Lerner told him not to worry.
	"We're gonna get you to opening night," the doctor vowed.
	Before Pastore was diagnosed he felt no pain and wasn't aware of PSA testing.
	"I knew a lot of people had survived prostate cancer," he says. "Joe Torre, Rudy Giuliani, Robert De Niro. Still, I thought it was all over. I needed surgery. We were in the middle of doing workshops. We had months of rehearsals to do."
	Pastore knew that Allen would be going to Europe from July to September to shoot a film so he scheduled his surgery for July.
	"In the meantime I commuted every day from New Rochelle to rehearse for nine hours a day," he says. "Come July, I had the robotic surgery. Then they said I needed radiation."
	Between Nov. 24 and Jan. 15, Pastore underwent 40 grueling radiation sessions under an assumed name at White Plains Hospital.
	"Then I'd go to rehearsals which were physically exhausting," he says. "Learning dance steps, songs, dialogue, plus the commute. None of the cast knew. But they'd see me covered in sweat, breathing hard, looking sick. My body was really messed up."
	Finally, Pastore broke omerta to Stroman about his cancer.
	"I told her that if she had to get rid of me, to just get rid of me," says Pastore. "Instead she started to cry. She hugged me and said, 'I will never get rid of you.' It was an amazing moment that gave me the strength to work even harder."
	On April 14 "Bullets Over Broadway" opened at the St. James Theater and — as Levin and Stroman promised — Vinny Pastore was up there singing and dancing in his stage role of a lifetime.
	Pastore says he saw Allen at the opening night party at a time when Allen was going through some bad press involving his daughter Dylan accusing him of child molestation.
	"I told Woody I had cancer," Pastore said. "He was genuinely concerned. He asked what kind. I told him prostate. He joked, 'Hey, if you're gonna get cancer, Vinny, prostate's the one to get. It's the most beatable.' We both needed a good laugh. He's been totally supportive since."
	Pastore will perform his 100th "Bullets Over Broadway" on Sunday.
	"I kept setting goals for myself during this illness," Pastore said. "First, make it through rehearsals. Then to previews. I did that. Then to opening night. I did that. Then to 100 performances, a big deal on Broadway. Now I wanna make it to my 68th birthday, July 14th. Now producers are talking to me about maybe taking 'Bullets Over Broadway' to London."
	Vinny Pastore took a deep breath and exhaled loudly on July 4 as he publicly liberated himself of his cancer secret to me.
	"Now I can officially say, 'OK, I'm a proud prostate cancer survivor,'" he says. "I feel great. I'm in a great show. My sister and my daughter and Susan Stroman and Woody Allen helped me through this. I warned a lot of my friends to go get checked out. One well-known actor did and he caught his prostate cancer in time."
	He says what helped him every night was the Woody Allen dialogue he delivers in the finale. "Yeah, Olive got bumped off, but I always look on the bright side. Some people are so negative. To them the world is a big no. But my mother taught me to always say yes to life. When things go bad there's always other stuff to be thankful for, a good lesson to all of you."
	Especially after you dodge a bullet on Broadway.
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.