
	It looks like Pope Francis is rethinking the idea of celibacy for clergy, and it's about time.
	In a recent interview with the founder of the Italian newspaper La Repubblica, Pope Francis was asked about the church's sex scandals and the requirement that priests be celibate.
	The La Repubblica story was picked up by major news outlets worldwide. "Report: Pope Francis Raises Idea of 'Solutions' to Clergy Celibacy," was the headline on Time magazine's website.
	The Vatican then sounded a cautionary note, saying La Repubblica's article — which also claimed the pontiff said about 2% of Catholic priests are pedophiles — might not quote Pope Francis' exact words, but reflected the "sense and spirit" of his feelings.
	Still, translations of the article said the Pope recalled that celibacy was adopted 900 years after the death of Jesus Christ and pointed out that the Eastern Catholic Church allows its priests to marry.
	"The problem certainly exists, but it is not on a large scale," La Repubblica quotes Francis as saying. "It will need time, but the solutions are there and I will find them."
	Even if these quotes are merely in the "sense and spirit" of the Pope's beliefs, this is a major shift in the Vatican, which in the past has been intractable on celibacy for priests.
	As a parent with a kid in Catholic school for the past nine years, I've heard countless other parents say almost unanimously that one major step toward preventing future sex scandals in the church is ending celibacy.
	Privately, most priests I know agree. "Pope Francis is a breath of fresh air," says one seasoned priest. "This is a fascinating time in church history because of him. He's out there in the sunshine, tackling big issues, dragging the church into the 21st century, on the cover of Time, speaking to the young. Most older priests I know are open to optional celibacy. Look, we accept converted, married Anglican priests. The Eastern Catholic priests can marry. Why not all priests?"
	In Monday's edition of Irish Central, a daily Irish-American blog, a story by Patrick Roberts headlined "Pope Hints Time is Coming for Married Priests," reports, "It would not be before time with numbers of priests dropping dramatically all over the world and celibacy blamed as the major factor. In 2012, just 12 men applied for the priesthood in Ireland. By 2040, it is estimated ... there will only be 400 odd priests in Ireland compared to 2,300 now."
	Just as he was right about professing tolerance for homosexuals, Pope Francis is on the right track in seeking a "solution" for celibacy.
	Celibacy is not dogma, or of "divine origin." It's a church rule.
	The first Pope, St. Peter the Apostle, was married. So were four other Popes. Eleven more Popes were the sons of other Popes or clergy. Celibacy was optional for priests until it was voted a Vatican rule at the First Lateran Council of 1123.
	Many church historians believe the celibacy rule was a business decision. The Vatican simply did not want priests to marry and have heirs because they wanted all the clergy's property and wealth to be bequeathed to Rome.
	But Francis might be the most Christian Pope since St. Peter, a true vicar of Christ on Earth. His deep compassion for the poor, hungry, sick, afflicted, and persecuted earned him Time's designation as Person of the Year.
	Tackling the sex scandals head-on instead of sweeping them under a velvet Vatican rug led many lapsed Catholics to a renewed respect for the papacy and their wounded church that Francis is trying to revitalize.
	In his 2012 book, the pontiff wrote, "For the moment, I'm in favor of maintaining celibacy, with its pros and cons, because there have been 10 centuries of good experiences rather than failures . ... But it is a question of discipline, not faith, and it could change."
	On Sunday, Pope Francis' interview in La Repubblica suggests that change is coming as he seeks a solution to problems caused by celibacy. "I'm not sure I'll see it in my lifetime," says the local priest I spoke with on Monday. "But Pope Francis will lay the groundwork for ending the celibacy rule in the not-so-distant future. And it's a good and welcome thing for the church."
	Most Catholics I know agree.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com