
	David Wright honors his police officer father by honoring heroic NYPD cops at Citi Field.
	The day David was born, his father, Rhon Wright, then a rookie cop in Norfolk, Va., bought his son a tiny Louisville slugger bat and a baseball glove that he hung up in his son's room.
	"Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine he'd grow up to be a professional baseball player," says Rhon Wright.
	The elder Wright retired in January as an assistant chief after 32 years working vice, narcotics, K-9 and SWAT.
	"My dad is my hero," says David Wright. "He raised four kids on a cop's salary but never told us the details of his job, about crashing down doors of drug houses and arresting bad guys with guns. If he had, I probably would have had a lot of sleepless nights."
	David was also big brother to three more of Rhon Wright's sons.
	"One brother is an engineer," says David Wright. "Another is a business manager. A third is a Virginia Tech University student. My dad always said he didn't raise his kids to be good ballplayers, engineers or businessmen. Just to be good people."
	In April, the Mets third baseman honored two rookie officers, James Li and Randy Chow, who were shot at by a farebeater on a Brooklyn bus in February. Li was wounded in both legs. A pair of off-duty FDNY emergency medical technicians, Khadijah Hall and Shaun Alexander, rushed to treat Li.
	The two cops and the EMTs came to Citi Field, met with Wright before the game and were introduced to the crowd on the big screen as they sat in field-level VIP seats near third base.
	"I thought of my dad as I thanked these guys," says Wright. "He risked his life as a cop to raise me and my brothers. It's my way of saying thanks to these heroic NYPD cops and my dad at the same time."
	Wright also honored Leslyn Stewart who has been helping families of slain cops since her husband, Detective Dillon Stewart , was killed in the line of duty in 2005, leaving her to raise their two girls.
	"My dad is a blue-collar guy who really didn't trust baseball as a career," David Wright says. "Even after I signed with the Mets, he wanted me to finish college so I'd have something to fall back on if baseball didn't work out. He stays on my case about finishing college — which I intend to do — for myself, but for him, too."
	In the meantime, the All-Star's Wright Thing charity honors cops.
	"Last year, it was a no-brainer to honor the heroes of Hurricane Sandy through the Wright Thing," he says. "This year, when my dad retired, the idea of honoring police officers in his honor seemed like a good idea."
	"David honoring NYPD cops in Citi Field tells me that despite all his success, he's still the same good kid we raised," says Rhon Wright.
	"That's what makes us proudest of him. Now that he's married, a couple of grandkids would too."
	"He's gonna have to wait a while on that one," says David Wright, laughing.
	Wright will continue to honor NYPD heroes every month of the 2014 season.
	For the Wright Thing.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com