
	No beef.
	Federal Judge Paul Gardephe basically said the same thing on Tuesday when he vacated the conviction of Gilberto (Cannibal Cop) Valle and set him free on bail.
	When I went to Valle's original trial it was like sitting in some fictional Orwellian America where citizens were now tried for their fantasies.
	Beware the Thought Police.
	I wrote a column that began: "OK, so where's the beef? I get it that Gilberto Valle is one sick ticket but where's the crime?"
	Anyway, I was filleted by many readers for my position that Valle was not guilty of anything but some very twisted fantasies.
	Because here was an NYPD cop from Middle Village, Queens, who graduated from Archbishop Molloy High, who never had a single civilian complaint, a model citizen who met his wife through an online dating service and had never abused his daughter or his wife.
	But when their marriage turned loveless, Kathleen Mangan-Valle said she installed spyware on her computer that Valle was using and discovered he'd been visiting some very bizarre websites. He was chatting with fellow cyber sickos about trussing his wife like a piglet with an apple in her mouth, basting her with olive oil, and then using her head as a centerpiece before eating her.
	He wouldn't top my baby-sitting list.
	
	But where was the beef? Show me the crime. Some people, mostly women, get their thrills reading fantasy like "50 Shades of Grey," an SM orgy of whips, chains and bondage. And some disturbed guys fantasize about cannibalism. As long as it stays on the page or in your head and it doesn't involve children, it's not a crime.
	It's fantasy.
	But after his wife contacted Valle's superiors, federal prosecutors indicted him.
	The trial became a media orgy, a bacchanal of puns and titillation with many pundits calling for Valle's head, the way he had called for his wife's. Hmmm.
	Some of it was amusing.
	Except that the life of a man who had never hurt anyone was on the line. He was being tried for what the prosecutors said he wanted to do — but never actually did.
	This was like telling a contestant on "America's Biggest Loser" that he was disqualified for buying a cookbook without eating any of the recipes. Like busting a guy for a DWI because he was fantasizing about guzzling a six-pack of beer.
	Valle's fantasies were vile, misogynistic and revolting, but they were still harmless unrealized fantasies.
	
	Yes, he Googled how to chloroform people. Yes, he chatted about snatching a female ex-schoolmate and cooking and eating her. Yes, he fantasized about serving his wife on a silver platter.
	But as we "usta" say in old-school Brooklyn — before the yuppies started referring to natives as "leftovers" — he didn't do nuthin'.
	There was no underlying crime in this case except that Valle had used an NYPD computer without permission to locate a female of his daydreams. And although authorities put him under surveillance for many months, Valle met with her but never acted upon his violent cannibalistic fantasy.
	His fantasies remained between his ears.
	
	Just as temptation is not a sin, fantasy is not a crime.
	The same way a mystery writer fantasizes about awful crimes. Look, I've written mystery novels and movie scripts that led me to Google information on date-rape drugs, body disposal, fashioning a home made silencer, how to commit arson, and other nefarious subjects.
	That doesn't make me a rapist, murderer or arsonist.
	I just bought Stephen King's excellent new novel "Mr. Mercedes," where in the opening, a guy plows a Mercedes into a crowd of people at a job fair. Should King be charged with planning mass vehicular homicide? Ludicrous. If King were charged with all his horrific fantasies, he'd be doing 50 shades of life without parole.
	But in America, we are not supposed to convict people for their thoughts. If we did, there wouldn't be anyone left to build enough jails.
	We'd all be in the can.
	But as in too many trials, jurors follow their emotions instead of the law and Valle was convicted and given a life sentence in a case in which there was no actual crime.
	Except for Valle misusing the NYPD computer, which carries a one-year sentence. He's already served 21 months, so that's a push.
	Other than that, when Gardephe looked at the Valle case with a legal scholar's eye, without the hysteria, emotion, or media feeding frenzy of the public trial, he determined "no crime had been committed."
	No beef, no case.
	The judge sent Valle home with his mother for dinner.