
	There's no place like home.
	I spent my three-week summer vacation in the best city on Earth — New York City.
	I finished working on a side project on my time off, but mostly I just spent each day in my native town marching in the endless parade of Gotham life.
	I didn't visit iconic sites or take touristy pictures, but I'll never forget driving from Bayside, Queens, out to Our Lady of Angels Church auditorium in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. There I watched my granddaughter Delilah, who will be 5 on 7/18 — the area code of Brooklyn and Queens — play a Munchkin in a Dimensions Dance Studio production of "The Wizard of Oz."
	I don't go to a lot of theater. Too expensive. I usually don't like musicals. But when you have your daughter's daughter up there on a stage singing the songs you grew up singing with your mother, you experience a continuity of life, family and home that makes you feel like a Brooklyn kid again.
	Don't ask me why or I'll simply tell you, "Because, because, because . . ."
	Even the ride home on the Belt Parkway, which after Memorial Day should be renamed the Road to Perdition, felt like a skip down the Yellow Brick Road.
	Maybe a week later — who keeps track on vacay? — good friends Vic and Liz suggested dinner at the storied Park Side Restaurant in Corona, where I'd never eaten. We had swordfish that must have been handpicked by Neptune and linguine with lobster sauce. You're glad you stayed in Queens when you know you couldn't have gotten a better meal anywhere else in the world.
	We waddled over to the Lemon Ice King of Corona, which lived up to its legendary status, and then we were drawn into Spaghetti Park, an emerald chip in the crown of Queens, by the velvet voice of a big guy with even bigger talent named Sal Manzo, who might be New York's Susan Boyle, waiting to be discovered. He belted a free concert from a stage overlooking the bocce court, singing Frank Sinatra, Tony Bennett, Elvis Presley and Louis Prima.
	With a temperature in the mid-70s and no humidity, we flopped on a park bench amid the crowd, watching skilled bocce players.
	My wife requested "Summer Wind." Manzo sang it beautifully and then dazzled with "My Way," "Can't Help Falling in Love" and "New York, New York."
	"A perfect New York night," Liz said.
	She was right. One you could not have had anywhere else in the world.
	So why leave?
	Every weekend, I watched my son's summer travel team play in Brooklyn, Queens, Nassau and Suffolk.
	Last week, I was in Marine Park at my grandson Dylan's 6th birthday, wrapped inside an old-fashioned Brooklyn block party with a DJ, dancing teens, sizzling barbecues, kids in bouncy castles, and adults reminiscing about the glory days of a vanished New York that looked a whole lot like this every day, a time when the Beatles and the Four Seasons were the soundtrack of a generation.
	That led me straight to the Douglaston Movie Theater with friends Tony and Pauline to see "Jersey Boys." I'd pay to watch Clint Eastwood direct traffic, and this musical material in the Oscar-winning director's hands resurrected an era, a sense of time and place and lost innocence, exploring the magical creative process and those awful things in life that hurt you into art.
	Then, against the predictions of some doctors, my big brudda Pete got out of the hospital and went home to his loft in downtown Manhattan. He's sharp as a dagger and on the mend.
	Last week, we watched Pete blow out a 79th birthday candle on a sugarless cannoli cake, which I tracked down in a great bakery in Whitestone, Queens, called Cascon Cheesecake (Calling all diabetics!).
	"Good to be home," he said.
	There were three-quarters of a century separating my granddaughter Delilah and my eldest brother Pete, but I remembered that in his memoir, "A Drinking Life," Pete wrote about my mother taking him at age 4 to the Sanders Theater (now the Pavilion) for his first movie, which had a lasting influence on his life and work.
	It was "The Wizard of Oz."
	No place like home.