
	Call it a dance to life.
	What started a few years ago as a family nightmare last week became a beautiful prom and another milestone in the remarkable life of Billy Nacmias.
	Billy, who is autistic, was abused in 2010 in Beach Chanel High School in Queens, says his father, Jack, who lives in Breezy Point, Queens, and runs Nacmias and Sons Sunoco station on Coney Island Ave. in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn.
	"Billy was deeply affected by the trauma," his father says. "He began to eat compulsively. He ballooned to 280 pounds. He refused to go to school. He became reclusive, locked in his room. Strong as a bull, he often exploded and destroyed the house. I'm a car mechanic and I had to call 911 for the police to come and restrain him."
	Jack Nacmias sued the city and won.
	The settlement included the city paying to place Billy in a 1,000-acre farm facility in the Catskills called the Center for Discovery.
	"This is the most amazing thing that ever happened to my son Billy and my family," Jack Nacmais says. "Not only did the Center for Discovery help Billy, they gave him a life."
	When Billy arrived at the upstate farm, he was 280 pounds of aimless and frustrated rage.
	"After six months working on the farm, eating organic foods and sleeping properly, my son was 168 pounds," says Jack. "He had great teachers, counselors, nurses and experts in the autism field. He raced up to us when we visited, eager to show us his room, then the hen houses where he worked. He was happy. He was rehearsing to play Scrooge in 'A Christmas Carol.' The Center for Discovery had literally saved our son's life."
	That life was just beginning to blossom when Billy neared the critical age of 21, when he would "age out" of the program and have to be relocated. But Billy Nacmias had become such a model student and his success story, reported here, had touched so many people in the swelling community of families touched by autism that the Center of Discovery hired Billy as a student-counselor.
	Today, Billy oversees egg production on the farm, and the kid who wouldn't come out of his room except on rampages now leads other autistic kids on nature hikes, teaching them to use a zip line down Frost Mountain. Billy Nacmias is a role model for others seeking a way through the maze of this baffling disorder called autism to a happy life.
	"Billy teaches the new students about the farm," says Jack Nacmias. "He shows them how to enjoy drama and music."
	Last week in his Sunoco station, Jack flicked through a computer photo montage of his son, eyes glistening, beaming with pride.
	"I want people who have autistic kids to know that there is hope," he said. "A few years ago, you could not have told me that. Now I know better. This weekend, I'm going up to visit my son Billy. He graduates high school on June 17th. Like every other regular high school graduate this weekend, he's got a senior prom date."
	Jack gazed off into that private corner of middle space where fathers go to hold back tears of pride.
	Then on Saturday, Jack Nacmias and his wife, Jane, drove up to the Center for Discovery. Billy greeted them, saying he'd already enrolled in night classes in English and country music at Sullivan County Community College. He showed his parents the ropes of his world where Billy Nacmias does important and rewarding work.
	That night the Nacmiases watched Billy, who used to tear their Queens house asunder, stride with tranquil confidence across the old fashioned barn-dance floor. Dressed in a sharp tuxedo, Billy led a lovely young woman named Jody in a beautiful pink prom dress onto the busy dance floor in the season of spring as the farm that saved Billy's life blossomed after the cruel snows of winter.
	Then as the Beatles' "Here Comes the Sun" played, Billy led Jody in a dance to life.
	"We stood on the sidelines, wiping tears of joy," says Jack Nacmias. "Our Billy was no longer 'different.' Billy was like every other American high school graduate this month dancing with a date at his senior prom. How do you ever thank the people who gave your kid a life?"
	You dance.