
	I was watching "The Godfather" with my son recently, explaining that it was the second-best gangster movie ever made. He asked what I thought was the best one.
	"Godfather II," I said.
	We watched both, and the kid who wasn't born until 25 years after they were made was mesmerized by the story, acting, directing and, of course, the astonishing timeless "look" of the films.
	Both were shot by a brilliant cinematographer named Gordon Willis, a native son of Astoria, Queens, who died last week at 82.
	But Willis' work will live forever on-screen.
	"Gordon Willis also shot 'All the President's Men,' the best newspaper movie ever made," I told my son.
	Willis also shot eight of Woody Allen's movies, including "Annie Hall," "Manhattan," "Broadway Danny Rose" and "Zelig."
	"No cinematographer ever made New York look more gorgeous," I said.
	Allen and Willis loved to shoot in the New York fall, the season of fading light and falling leaves, which complemented Woody Allen's comic fixation with death.
	"Gordy was known as a grumpy, temperamental guy," Woody Allen remembers. "But I loved working with him because I learned something new about filmmaking every day from Gordy. He had an uncanny grasp of the fundamentals of his craft. I once heard him lecturing a Kodak executive that they didn't put enough silver oxide in their film stock."
	Jim Toback, director of "The Pick-up Artist," which Willis shot, says Willis was the only cinematographer who refused to film a scene the way the director wanted it.
	"I asked if he meant it wasn't possible," Toback said. "Gordy said, 'No, it can be shot that way. You can do it yourself. But I'm not gonna do it.' He refused to shoot something he felt was the wrong way."
	Allen says that before they shot "Zelig," a mockumentary with scenes depicting the early 20th century, Willis located the lenses cameramen used in the 1920s and 1930s. "He added a flicker mat, which I never heard of, to give the movie that authentic flickering look of old movies," Allen says. "Gordy was a genius."
	Like Allen, Willis bucked Hollywood and made almost all his movies on the East Coast. Apparently as a result, he received just two Oscar nominations, for "Zelig" and "Godfather: Part III," but never won. Willis received an honorary Oscar in 2009.
	Allen says while filming "Annie Hall," Willis wanted to shoot an empty room without the actors. "I said, 'That's a problem, Gordy, because, well, they're not in it,' " Allen said. "Gordy said it would be better to overhear them off-screen. So we tried it. It worked so well that in every one of my movies since, I shoot a 'Gordy scene' with actors speaking off-camera."
	Allen says that when he needed an effect like Annie Hall's spirit leaving her body, Willis didn't need a lab. "To my amazement, he'd do it in the camera," Allen said.
	In a 1997 interview, I asked Willis about his trademark of juxtaposing light and dark as in the opening sequence of "The Godfather."
	"In the opening of 'Godfather,' I thought juxtaposing an underbelly of evil in Don Corleone's darkened room with this bright, festive wedding that was taking place outside was a wonderful way of doing it," Willis said. "You cut back and forth between those two things, offering a visual subtext to the wedding, and the audience is immediately aware that not everything is always what it seems here. It painted a picture and laid a foundation for the rest of the trilogy."
	In "All the President's Men," Willis wanted to show in pictures the David versus Goliath battle between two lowly reporters and the White House.
	"We wanted to show how the power of Washington, D.C., can make people feel small," Willis said. "Little people in a big landscape. Needles in a haystack. These two reporters are trying to take down a sitting President. . . . There is a scene in the Library of Congress where Woodward and Bernstein are sitting at a table literally going through all these files. And (director) Alan Pakula wanted to do an overhead shot to look down at them. I took a sheet of paper, worked out the shot on a graph, attached a winch to the dome, used some stabilizers and guidelines, attached an Arriflex camera to the cable, and we kept hoisting the camera right up into the dome of the library until these two characters looked like ants."
	Ants shot by a giant of cinema named Gordon Willis.