
	A thousand welcomes to spring.
	After New York's winter of discontent, of relentless cold and never-ending snow, I stood in Cunningham Park in Queens on Tuesday watching the junior varsity team from St. Francis Preparatory School play the beautiful game of baseball on a grass field sprouting the first defiant green shoots of spring.
	Across 73rd Ave., the freshman team was practicing for its first game on Saturday.
	Yes, it was still cold. I wore a heavy sweater and a winter coat. Baseball dads stood in the stingy sun drinking steaming coffee and stamping their sneakered feet as their kids cracked the rawhide ball with wooden bats. The kids ran the bases like the cops were after them as birds exploded into flight from still-naked trees.
	The long, stubborn winter that had overstayed its welcome like a freeloading houseguest was about to be sent packing. And don't let the storm door hit you on the way out.
	Even sanitation workers flush with overtime were shouting good riddance to winter.
	The JV kids were winning 7-0 and the home team crowd clapped cold hands as the winners high-fived the losing team and looked ahead to the season.
	No one was going home a complete loser because spring would arrive with the vernal equinox at 12:57 p.m. Thursday, blessing the Northern Hemisphere with longer days and shorter nights.
	Gone would be a winter that the National Climactic Data Center tells us brought 57.3 inches of snow to Central Park, where the norm is 21 inches. As the last St. Francis Prep junior varsity batter ran for home in Cunningham Park, he was leaving behind a winter that nearly everyone thought was one of the worst in memory.
	We were all wrong.
	Historically speaking, this winter ranked somewhere in the midrange for cold in New York. Not a single state in the country broke a coldest-winter record.
	California actually had its warmest winter in recorded history, resulting in a severe drought.
	Since the 1970s, we have been getting spoiled with unusually mild winters because manmade emissions and greenhouse gases have caused global warming. So when we get one that is close to the historical middle range for New York City, we wail that it's the coldest winter ever.
	History be damned.
	I froze my butt off this winter. Maybe I'm becoming an old crank, but every time I opened my front door, there seemed to be a new heap of snow to shovel from my walk. Driving was one long black-ice nightmare. Going to the store was a Jack London odyssey. Finding a parking space was like hitting Lotto.
	One father of three I knew died of a heart attack at 43 after pushing a snow blower.
	Like thousands of other dads, I drove my son three nights a week all winter, through blizzards and over pavement more potholed than the road to Baghdad, to get to batting cages and winter workouts in school gyms as he prepared to try out for his high school freshman baseball team.
	I burned more logs in my fireplace from Thanksgiving to St. Patrick's Day than a Russian novelist. I resented the snow so much that I didn't go sledding once, not even with my grandkids. I dreamed of a non-white Christmas. My car suffered two flats and one steering column replacement. And I started warming up my car 15 minutes before driving my kid to school in the mornings.
	But on Thursday, the first official day of spring, the forecast was for 53 degrees F — F for finally.
	On Saturday, my kid's freshman team would play its first game of baseball. The temperature was supposed to reach a glorious 57.
	One team would be victorious. But there would be no losers. Because winter would at long last be over as kids again played baseball in New York City.
	In the spring.
	jhamill@nydailynews.com