Follow @SharonFGrigsby

I agree with colleague Nicole Stockdale's assessment that the Sunday Points cover essay by French essayist Guy Sorman about Dallas' greatest philanthropists was fascinating. But the farther into it I read, the queasier I became. Not that there was anything wrong with the essay, but because it reminded me of what's wrong with us.I suspect this is a topic we'll be coming back to in an editorial (in a far more measured tone than I have here), but here's my top line: our priorities are all mixed up."The Dallas donors have funded everything from world-class cultural institutions to parks and even bridges," Sorman writes.Yes, philanthopists in this city knows how to lift up a beautiful building or urban park, but what about lifting up a neighborhood?Sorman offered many interesting theories for Dallas philanthropists' sense of civic responsibility — their desire, for instance, "to make downtown Dallas a cultural area, graced with museums and concert halls to help overcome the tragic associations of the [JFK] assassination." Or consider this one: "The philanthropic giving is an extended form of tithing, as traditionally practiced in Christian America. Dallas is a Bible Belt city, as the extraordinary number of churches one sees everywhere testifies."And all this time I thought a priority of tithing was to help those in need.I know that a lot of do-good groups in the city raise money for all sorts of worthy causes — from literacy to prevention of child abuse. And lots of those big shiny new buildings offer programs for the so-called "underprivileged."That's not the kind of spending I'm talking about — I'm talking about doing something transformative — transforming the neighborhoods in this city that need to be healed in the same way that the philanthropists have transformed the Arts District.This isn't the first time I've written these sentiments — and I'm far, far from the first person to write them. But the Points cover just got under my skin. I think it's great that the private sector steps up to the plate — but how about stepping up to the plate on behalf of social justice? And stepping up in a big all-out way.It was tough to see our city gushed over in print for its success in creating sparkly baubles and to see "givers" lionized for their can-do-great-things spirit. What we need is a lot more projects that are at least as big as Jubilee Park — and preferable a lot bigger.When Dallas philanthropists are ready to write some huge checks on behalf of healing needy neighborhoods, then I'll think it's time to gush over them. 