
	Threats and hope.
	The mood on E. Seventh St. in the middle of Manhattan's Ukrainian community was oddly upbeat Monday.
	Even after Russian President Vladimir Putin sent troops into Crimea.
	Even after Moscow issued an ultimatum to Ukraine to surrender two warships or they would seize them, portending that Putin might have plans to expand his push into Ukraine.
	The threat led President Obama to warn Russia it was on "the wrong side of history" and warn of sanctions. But on Seventh St., the people felt that with Obama on their side they were on the right side of history.
	"I received a phone call from my father and my sister in Ukraine yesterday," says Irene Bracero, secretary of St. George's Ukrainian Catholic Church. "I talked to them on Sunday as I marched with my mother from the Ukrainian Embassy to the Russian Embassy to protest Putin's invasion of Ukraine."
	But she says they were feeling better than they were two weeks ago.
	"Because the eyes of the world are now on Putin," she says. "We are not alone. My family and friends in Ukraine are very happy with how President Obama is handling this situation."
	Two weeks ago I spoke to Bracero and the St. George Church cleaning lady, Oksana Ivasiv. As they talked, Ukrainian protesters occupied Independence Square in Kiev inside a ring of fire that lit up the world. Then all hell broke loose as over 100 civilians were gunned down in the streets by "Russian-speaking police" sent in by Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych.
	Bracero and Ivasiv feared for their relatives and loved ones back in Ukraine. They prayed at daily Masses in the packed church. They collected food and clothing for the protesters. They transferred money from the Ukrainian credit union on Second Ave. to struggling relatives back in Ukraine.
	They believed the world was ignoring their plight.
	"But today I am filled with hope," says Ivasiv. "President Obama is standing up for us. The people I speak to in Ukraine believe Putin was p---ed off because the protests took place during the Olympics, which embarrassed him. So he went into Crimea. He also wants access to the Black Sea. But people in Kiev, my hometown of Lviv, do not believe Putin is crazy enough to try to send troops there."
	Bracero says that's because the world now monitors Putin's next move. "We are very happy that Obama called Putin to say this was wrong," says Bracero. "We are glad he is threatening sanctions. We also have other nations backing us like Britain, Canada, Poland, Germany, Slovakia, and Austria. The European Union. The feeling here in the East Village is now hope instead of fear. But we take nothing for granted. We will continue to protest. We must keep the eyes of the world on Ukraine."
	At Sunday night's Oscars show, Jared Leto even mentioned that the protesters in Ukraine and Venezuela should be in our thoughts as the world watched his acceptance speech for Best Supporting Actor for "Dallas Buyers Club."
	"Jared Leto made me and all Ukrainians I know here and in Ukraine so proud and thankful," says Bracero. "He loves his own mother, and so he understands how much we care about our relatives in Ukraine. That means so much to us. I received so many texts from Ukraine happy about it. This is why we have hope."
	But Ivasiv says she tempers her hope with caution, especially now that Putin is giving ultimatums.
	"We are still alert," she says. "Still cautious. Yanukovych makes new plans. We have not yet seen the end of Putin's plans. He says he invaded Ukraine to protect Russians. My sister called me and said with that logic maybe he'll invade the Russian neighborhoods in Brooklyn."
	Ivasiv surrendered a dark chuckle. "Everybody here and in Ukraine I speak to is happy with how Obama is handling this," she says. "Nobody wants a war. We are still grieving our dead. We don't want to bury anymore. The protesters are still in Independence Plaza. We are still supporting them. But now so is America and the world."
	Bracero says two weeks ago she could not sleep because panicked family in Ukraine phoned all through the night. "Last night I watched the Oscars and after Jared Leto's speech I went to sleep and the phone was quiet," she says. "Because now there is hope in Ukraine."
	By nightfall, Russia was issuing ultimatums and poised to seize navy ships off the coast of Ukraine.