
	Kenneth Crandell says he's stuck between a gun and a pink slip.
	Crandell says the legal letter he received last week demanding he quit his new job is no different than the bandit's pistol to his head that made him leave his old job.
	"I quit my old job after my company refused to install simple exterior security cameras after a terrifying armed robbery," Crandell says. "Now, lawyers from my old job have sent me and my new company letters threatening to sue us if I don't leave my new job. Either way, my wife and three kids suffer."
	This all started when Crandell, 38, showed up for work at the Rent-A-Center at 9718 Church Ave. in East New York, Brooklyn, at 8:30 a.m. on Oct. 30.
	"I was in my back office gathering papers for a morning meeting," Crandell says. "When I glanced at our interior security monitor, I saw one of my workers who'd gone out to our truck being forced into the store by a hooded gunman. Then I saw a second hooded gunman grab my assistant manager by the neck. I dialed 911 and reported an armed robbery in progress."
	Crandell, a deacon at Faith, Hope and Charity Christian Church in East New York and a member of the NYPD Clergy Task Force, had schooled others on what to do in such situations. He left the phone off the hook so the 911 operator could hear what was happening. He made sure not to provoke the gunmen.
	When one robber entered his office, Crandell raised his hands. "Take whatever you want," Crandell remembers saying. "I just asked him to please not hurt anyone."
	He says the bandit grabbed money from a cash drawer, rifled Crandell's pockets and led him at gunpoint into the bathroom, where his two co-workers were duct-taped at the mouth, wrists and ankles. Then it was his turn.
	"They taped everything but my mouth," Crandell says. "All I thought about was those poor workers in Wendy's in Queens years ago who were executed by the robbers."
	Crandell says police from the 67th Precinct arrived in record time.
	"The gunmen, both 19, were arrested," he says. "The detectives asked for the security tapes. I told them we only had interior cameras. Turns out that wasn't working either. You could see what was happening live, but there was no tape. The detectives said we really needed working cameras inside and especially outside to protect us."
	After the robbery, Crandell says he repeatedly asked RAC to install a $250 exterior camera. "In my 10 years at RAC, eight as manager, I generated over $8 million in revenue for this national company that does $3.5 billion in annual revenue," he says.
	He says RAC refused.
	On Dec. 5, Crandell says he resigned from RAC and took a job at a competitor, Aaron's, less than a mile away.
	"I did have a 'no-compete clause' in my contract," Crandell acknowledges. "But I told RAC that I felt that they had done nothing to make me feel safer since I had a gun put to my head and was bound with duct tape. To me that was a deal-breaker."
	Last week, Crandell received a second letter from RAC corporate attorneys. It demanded he immediately "cease and desist your employment within the protected seven mile radius" of his previous employer.
	"Aaron's received a similar letter," Crandell says.
	RAC corporate spokesman Xavier Dominicis said, "We appreciate that Mr. Crandell dialed 911 during the robbery. But it does not make him a hero. He has a very standard contract that doesn't allow him to work for a competitor within seven miles of the RAC store ... for six months. Also, although I am not at liberty to discuss his reasons for leaving RAC, it wasn't about security cameras."
	Crandell insists that it was. "I absolutely would have stayed at RAC if they had installed the exterior security cameras," he says.
	Aaron's has a sophisticated surveillance system, he notes.
	"Aaron's is being threatened with a lawsuit," says Crandell, who does not have a lawyer. "So I could soon be unemployed, which would mean that even though those armed robbers didn't get a dime from RAC because of my 911 call, they successfully robbed me of my livelihood."
	dhamill@nydailynews.com