
	A half-century ago this week, I walked into Liberty Meat Market on Seventh Ave. near 10th St. in Park Slope, Brooklyn, wearing a Beatles wig.
	I was the delivery boy there and all the customers broke up laughing at my mop top. My boss, Frank Tufano, was trimming a loin of pork behind the counter when he caught my reflection in the gleaming mirror.
	"Get that dead cat offa your head in my store," he shouted. "Can't have no beatniks woikin' for me."
	"Thinks every day's Halloween, this kid," said his brother Ralph, weighing T-bone steaks.
	"When God was givin' out brains, he thought he sez trains," said Noochie, a third Tufano brother.
	The Tufanos all wore their short jet black hair combed straight back. They sported dress pants and polished leather shoes even as they trudged through sawdust and beef blood.
	That week, the Beatles appeared on "The Ed Sullivan Show" as the country was still recovering from the trauma of John F. Kennedy's assassination. People scrounged for laughs as a few young neighborhood guys in the military started getting shipped to some place called Vietnam.
	I was telling my son, nephew and my grandson some of this on Sunday night on a tour of my snowy old neighborhood after leaving the Barclays Center, where I'd bought $15 nosebleed seats for the Nets vs. New Orleans.
	I told the kids how local screwballs wore Beatles wigs in the saloons that week, singing, "Yeah, yeah, yeah," right over there in Rattigan's, which is now a four-star restaurant called Talde.
	"Soon, all the young guys in the neighborhood started growing our hair long," I said. "We listened to the Beatles and Bob Dylan as more and more kids from the neighborhood started getting drafted and sent to Vietnam."
	I didn't mention that some came home addicted to heroin. Or in body bags. I told them the Beatles who started as a joke caused a cultural tidal wave.
	In three short years, every young person in Park Slope had long hair and a copy of the Beatles' "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" album. They wore bell-bottoms and love beads and grooved on Hippie Hill in Prospect Park during the Summer of Love.
	Long hair became a symbol of the peace movement as the issue of Vietnam divided families here and across the country. Some neighborhood places, like Farrell's tavern, wouldn't serve longhairs. Until they started coming home from Nam. Jimmy Houlihan, a Farrell's bartender in the late '60s, served the first longhair, George Ryan. Some conservative World War II and Korean War vets objected. Houlie shouted, "Listen, if Georgie can get two Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart fightin' in Vietnam, I'm gonna serve him a beer in Farrell's."
	That incident was a neighborhood milestone.
	On Sunday night, I showed the kids my old butcher shop, now a real estate office. The Ansonia Clock Factory where their grandfather used to work was now a condo complex.
	I showed them the tenement where I'd grown up.
	"Cool," said my son. "But I wanna see where de Blasio lives."
	"Yeah, I wanna see this front yard that Dante shovels on the news," said my nephew, Padraic, who shovels my yard with my son in Queens.
	I drove down 11th St. as the snow fell. I slowed in the outfield of our old stickball field, pointed to a modest home where Mayor de Blasio lives. A little NYPD kiosk stood at the curb.
	Underwhelmed, Liam said, "That's it?"
	"Wow, I have to shovel more than Dante," my nephew Padraic said.
	"How much has really changed since the Beatles, dad?"
	We still had troops fighting an unwinnable conflict overseas. New Yorkers, even movie stars, were still overdosing on heroin. Okay, we had a new Brooklyn arena and the old Irish saloons were now fancy restaurants.
	But 50 years after I walked into Liberty Meats with a Beatles wig, Dante de Blasio wore his hair in a big retro Afro that caused a cultural sensation and helped get his old man elected mayor.
	"Yeah, not that much," I said. "Yeah, yeah, yeah ..."