Bear with me while I draw a line between the photo above and the meeting I just came out of with DMN colleagues who, along with me, make up our Bridging Dallas' North-South Gap team.This time each year, we look back at how we did on our 2014 goals and begin putting together our plans for the coming year. (Sneak peek: a campaign for statewide restrictions on payday loans, expanded efforts related to southern Dallas slumlords, a strategy for literally bridging the "gap" that Interstate 30 creates in the Fair Park-South Dallas-Deep Ellum-Old East Dallas part of our city.)I waited until Rudy, Jim and Tod had laid out their agendas before I raised my idea — and I raised it more as a question than a declarative statement. Is it possible to create and sustain an effective crusade to deal with Dallas' stray, wild and/or generally neglected dog problem?It's not a sexy or headline-grabbing subject. But so many of us — regardless of whether we live north or south — are aware of its pervasiveness. And to me it's not so much a "scary problem" is as one that's  just so doggone sad. That brings me back to the photo on this post. It published earlier this month with a story on the stray dog problem in Pleasant Grove. (Note that the dog photographed here was actually in South Dallas.)Whose heart doesn't just break when you see a photo like this? (I literally have to change the channel when these Humane Society commercials play during the CNN dayside broadcasts.)You don't have to go to YouTube to find scenes like these. Take two of my most recent interviews in southern Dallas: One to Union Church to visit with Pastors Charles and Earlene Martin  (that visit led to this wonderful story by DMNer Charles Scudder) or a call I made on the staff at St. John's, both in Oak Cliff. Before each visit, I drove the blocks around the church properties, and in both cases, I encountered very large dogs wandering about, most of them without collars but none of them looking particularly "lost." I also saw four more "tethered" on terribly short chains.Just two blocks south of my own Hollywood-Santa Monica neighborhood in Old East Dallas, a "tipsy" house that faces busy Lindsley Avenue has hosted at least three litters of puppies in the last year or so. I know a lot about these pets because not only do adult dogs, apparently including the mother of the latest round of pups, ramble all over the neighborhood but the puppies themselves wobble along the sidewalks and into the streets that radiate from the home. I've counted at least one of them hit by a car — I myself almost rammed my car into another vehicle as I tried to dodge dogs recently.Likewise, when I walked from the nearby rec center to Mt. Auburn Elementary School last week to offer the staff a "random act of kindness" in honor of beloved Steve Damm, (check out everyone's acts of kindness here if you want to be uplifted), I encountered three large dogs rambling around — with no collars or owners in sight — on the front grounds of the school.OK, probably more examples than you need. Here's my question: Can we do anything effectively as a newspaper to fix this problem?It's clear that a percentage of our population thinks the miracle of birth is just part of Mother Nature and, hey, if you end up with extra litters of puppies (and kittens) that have to be dumped at the local park, well, that's the way God intended it. According to animal services people in Dallas, many city residents, especially in our city's lower income neighborhoods, just don't put much stock in spaying and neutering. They simply don't think it's necessary.So potentially we could write an editorial a week and never reach — much less persuade — any of the people who are keeping the strays cycle populated. But Tod had one idea that seems workable: What if the city could team up with DISD to better educate schoolchildren about the importance of spay-neuter programs and why, as cute as those little puppies are, too often families are signing slow-death warrants for those cuddly creatures. Or, just as bad, creating environments where dogs can become strays and, thus, nuisances or worse for other families.I haven't given up on this point of advocacy ... I really would like to believe we can find an answer that's more satisfying than "it is what it is." The fact that most every southern Dallas council member will tell you that strays is the number one complaint in his or her district is reason enough to try to figure out solutions. If you have any ideas to help us shape an effective course of action, I'd love to hear from you.