
	He gave her a dozen long-stemmed roses on a blind date.
	"It was love at first sight," says Lisa Amentas, opening one of 50 boxes of roses — 300 flowers to a box — delivered to Bayside Florist in Bayside, Queens, in anticipation of Valentine's Day. "My friend invited us both to dinner 21 years ago at her place because she wanted us to meet. Gregory was so nice, charming, handsome. He was from the same Greek island as me, Chios, and I just loved that he was his own boss in the flower business."
	"Lisa was the one for me," Gregory says in return. "I knew it right away. I guess I was right because now we have three great kids, two in college, one starting college next year. That's why I'm open seven days a week. Flowers and raising kids don't have days off."
	"We're a mom-and-pop shop," says Lisa. "Our motto is 'Give the customers the kind of service that makes them want to come back.' And they do."
	Two days before Cupid fires his arrow, two other workers helped sort the 15,000 roses the store will sell in the great Valentine's Day rush. The three Amentas kids — Costas, 20, Maria, 19, and Athena, 17 — will arrive after school to work, filling vases with baby's breath, cutting roses and tying ribbons on orders to be picked up and delivered to lovers all over eastern Queens.
	"We have 10 drivers for Valentine's Day," says Lisa. "But Valentine's Day will be another snowstorm. Making deliveries will be tough. But we'll get the deliveries there for sure. That's what you can rely on with a mom-and-pop shop like ours. Attention and reliability."
	"And quality," says Gregory. "Live flowers handpicked by me, fresh from the greenhouses of Melville, Huntington, Brooklyn. Good service. The area code 800 flowers are part of corporate America. The people who take your order are faceless middlemen brokers that take 30% of the sale."
	"The fruit stand flowers are usually half-dead by the time you get them home," says Lisa. "Roses should open and bloom and last, like the love they symbolize."
	This week the roses have been flown in to New York from Chile, Colombia and Mexico.
	Thirty years ago, Gregory went to school for computers.
	"I hated it," he says. "So I took a job driving for a florist. Then I learned the flower business. It's tough. Hard, long hours, 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. every day. But we own a home in Valley Stream and we'll put three kids through college. Flowers gave us that."
	And a dozen of his own roses won him the love of his life.
	"You meet all kinds of wonderful people in this business," Gregory says. "An Irish gentleman, maybe 80, thin, always dressed dapper, comes in all the time for a carnation before going to perform as a singer in Manhattan. The carnation on his lapel gives him youthful distinction."
	Just then, Ellie Fliegel enters. She runs Turn the Page, a used bookstore next door.
	"I want to thank you for the absolutely gorgeous bouquet you sold my parents for my birthday," she says. "The scent still fills my house."
	They thank her and wish her a happy birthday.
	"That's the reward of selling flowers with care," says Gregory. "We take pride in our work. The mom-and-pop shops are what built America. They still offer the best quality and service."
	"I worked for the city Water Board doing billing and customer service until I married Gregory at St. Demetrios Greek Orthodox Church in Jamaica a year after he gave me those roses," says Lisa. "I didn't know what hard work was till the flower business. But flowers gave us a life together."
	So what will these florists do on Valentine's Day?
	"We'll work until 11 p.m.," says Lisa, laughing. "Maybe Friday we'll go out to dinner."
	"Then we'll start preparing for Mother's Day, the busiest flower day of the year," says Gregory.
	And 21 years later, the bloom is still on those roses that Gregory gave Lisa.