
	The case against Tony Yarbough grows weaker by the day.
	Yarbough, 39, has done 21 years in a state pen for the 1992 triple homicide of his mother, Annie Yarbough, 44; his 12-year-old half-sister, Chavonn Barnes; and her friend, Latasha Knox, 12. And it now appears he didn't commit the crime.
	At the crime scene on July 18, 1992, DNA was found under Annie Yarbough's fingernails, consistent with a struggle.
	The DNA did not match her son Tony, then 18. It also did not match the DNA of Tony's friend Sharrif Wilson, 15, with whom he'd spent the night of July 18, 1992, hanging out before going home to Coney Island where he says he discovered the stabbed and strangled bodies in the early morning.
	"Even my mother and I are starting to have our doubts about this case," says Annette Hankis, 20, sister of Latasha Knox. "I was born two years after my sister was murdered, the same year Tony Yarbough (pictured) was on trial. It bothered me, haunted my mother. But she always thought they had the right guy doing time for Latasha's murder. Now she's not so sure. Me either."
	Yarbough was convicted based on the video confession of Wilson, who later recanted his testimony, claiming it was coerced by authorities with a promise of a reduced sentence.
	Last year, Assistant Brooklyn District Attorney Mark Hale asked Wilson to submit to a polygraph to see if his recantation rang true and that he'd lied back at the time of the murders.
	"Wilson passed the lie detector test with flying colors," says Phil Smallman, one of Yarbough's new lawyers.
	Then even more explosive new evidence bubbled up from the medical examiner's lab. The DNA found in 1992 under the nails of Annie Yarbough — a known drug user — matched DNA found in the body of Migdalia Ruiz, a drug user who was found in Sunset Park in 1999, strangled and stabbed. Ruiz was murdered while Tony Yarbough was in Attica State Prison.
	"This meant that a serial killer responsible for at least four murders is on the loose in Brooklyn," says Smallman. "And that an innocent man is doing time for murders he committed."
	"That DNA found at another woman's murder while Tony Yarbough is in prison really bothers me and my mom," says Annette Hankis. "The Daily News story made us rethink this whole thing. . . . I think they need to do a new investigation."
	Smallman said: "There is nothing left to hold these two guys for those three murders. They should get out today."
	I called the Brooklyn DA's office on Monday to see if there was any movement on the case. They did not have a reply as of Monday night.
	Tamika Congress still lives on the 15th floor of 2832 W. 23rd St., where the murders happened.
	"I was close friends of Latasha Knox and Chavonn Barnes," says Congress. "I'm two years older than they were, but we played together. I was with them the night before they were murdered. Chavonn adored her big brother, Tony. No way Tony killed her. Everybody in the building knows Tony didn't do it. Now the evidence proves it. Time for Tony to come home."