
	S omething is missing on the overproduced 13-block stretch of Broadway that has been renamed Super Bowl Blvd. in honor of a Super Bowl in another state.
	What's missing is a single photograph of Broadway Joe Namath riding in a Super Bowl parade on Broadway in 1969 after he guaranteed and then delivered a Super Bowl victory for the New York Jets — when they still played in Queens.
	You know why there's no picture?
	Because there never was a parade on Broadway for Broadway Joe and his 1969 Jets Super Bowl champions.
	But that same year, the Mets won the World Series and had a parade down Broadway. The New York Yankees have had so many parades down Broadway they could rename it Yankee Blvd. And in 2012, Mike Bloomberg threw a parade on Broadway for the Giants even though they don't play in the city or state of New York.
	The prevailing theory on why Namath and the 1969 Jets didn't have a parade was because Giants owner Wellington Mara threatened then-Mayor John Lindsay that if the city threw a parade for the Jets, he would move the Giants, who played at Yankee Stadium, to New Jersey. Lindsay caved. Instead of giving the Jets a parade, he had a ceremony at City Hall.
	That was it.
	"Namath had a parade in Beaver Falls [in Pennsylvania] that year," says Mark Kriegel, author of "Namath," the definitive biography of Broadway Joe.
	This is a lasting disgrace.
	Especially since the Giants defected to Jersey anyway. As did the Jets.
	No football player ever epitomized the swagger, glamour and pizazz of New York City better than Broadway Joe Namath, who was a 100,000-watt bulb lighting up the night. He hit every nightspot in the city, wearing stylish clothes, long hair, sideburns, a moustache and a killer smile.
	Back in 2001, I interviewed a guy named Nick Mellas who was celebrating his 50th anniversary of slinging cocktails at Gallagher's Steak House. He served all the sports greats, including Joe DiMaggio, Mickey Mantle and Joe Louis.
	His favorite was Namath.
	"One day, a bunch of kids spotted Joe Namath eating lunch," Mellas said. "We used to have these little rolls shaped like footballs, and Namath started signing them and passing them across the restaurant to the kids. It was a great little scene. If I never forgot it, you know those kids never did."
	But to its lasting shame, New York City forgot Joe Namath after he won Super Bowl III. He still hasn't had his parade.
	In 2010, when the NFL announced that this year's Super Bowl would be played at the Meadowlands, New Jersey Gov. Chris (Traffic Cone) Christie couldn't wait to snub New York.
	"I look to where that stadium is, and that's New Jersey," he said. "When everyone gets on the train or in their car or on the buses, they're going to be coming to that game in New Jersey."
	The same man whose staffers gave us four days of spiteful, dangerous rush-hour gridlock on the George Washington Bridge is right. This Super Bowl is not being played in New York. It's being played in the Stink State of New Jersey.
	Yet we are turning 13 blocks of Broadway in New York City, which the Jets and the Giants jilted, into Super Bowl Blvd. This is like Donna Hanover throwing an anniversary party for Rudy and Judy Giuliani.
	And we still have not had a parade down Broadway for Broadway Joe, who won the Super Bowl in Miami for a team from Queens.
	If we can turn Broadway into a celebration of teams from Denver and Seattle playing in the Garden State, how can we not afford to throw a belated parade for Joe Namath and his 1969 Jets?
	Bill de Blasio, who was elected as our "outer-borough mayor," might think about correcting this glaring historical slight.
	Give Broadway Joe his parade on Broadway.