Classic cars are soaring in value, partly  because they are highly-prized objects, but also because they can prove  to be a great way to beat the taxman.So there is expected to be considerable  interest in a Ferrari Testarossa coming up for auction in London today. But there's an added extra interest - it was  formerly owned by pop star Elton John.The red 512 TR has just 2,100 miles on the clock and is expected to top £110,000 when it is sold by auction house COYS.But the vehicle is just the tip of an  incredible boom in sales of classic or vintage cars which have seen  returns far outstrip most other types of investments in the last decade.A wealth report from property firm Knight  Frank reckons classic car prices have soared 395 per cent in 10 years.  The FT-SE 100, in comparison, has risen around 94 per cent over that  time.Chris Routledge, managing director of COYS  said: "Old cars have been a hedge against the recession and traditional  investments and interest in them is growing significantly quickly around  the world."Prices have rocketed and in some cases, like  the Mercedes-Benz 300SL Roadster, the average global auction price  since 2000 has increased by 300 per cent.""Similarly, the Aston Martin DB4 average  global auction price before the recession was £135,000, but after the  recession it went up to £207,000, increasing by 53 per cent."The latter may be soaring in price because of  the James Bond connection, but canny investors are turning to classic  motors as, unlike shares and most traditional assets, they don't attract  capital gains tax, which is charged at 28 per  cent for higher rate taxpayers, and 18 per cent otherwise.Susan Spash, partner at accountants Blick  Rothenberg, said: "Classic cars are an investment free from capital  gains tax, which would otherwise be chargeable on UK residents selling  investment assets and making a profit. This specific  exclusion is because they are categorized both as 'wasting assets' and  passenger vehicles."Wasting assets are possessions including  machinery and items with a predicted life of less than 50 years and are  exempt from capital gains tax. Antique clocks, pleasure boats, caravans,  fine wines are other items treated as wasting assets  and free from the tax.Two years ago Radio 2 DJ Chris Evans invested  some £12m on a rare 1963 Ferrari 250 GTO. He helped raise the cash by  selling other cars from his extensive collection. But nowhere in the  transaction did he have to pay any tax on the profits  he made.The savings are considerable. Tax is charged  on any profits on assets above £10,600 in a year. Selling a £100,000  asset - or share portfolio - would normally therefore mean attracting a  capital gains tax charge of almost £25,000.Calls for capital gains tax to be levied on cars to stop people  avoiding paying tax on their profits are misguided.Why? Because if  became liable for CGT, HMRC would have to give allowances  for losses.  And with new cars estimated tolose half their value as soon as they're  driven off the forcourt,  the net loss to the Treasury would be huge.Today's car sale in London also features a  1969 Ferrari Dino 206 GT, one of only 152 models produced, which was  once owned by Canadian film director David Cronenberg. It's estimated to  sell for up to £210,000."Classic cars have outstripped most other  investments", said Chris Routledge, "and demand for classic cars as an  investment is at an all-time high."However, anyone tempted to turn a quick profit and avoid tax needs to bear in mind that HMRC will be watching. If they believe you're buying and selling cars for profit, they will regard you as a trader and demand tax on the money you make.Also the market is highly risky. Buying a new car in the hope that it becomes a classic can prove to be a costly mistake. Take the Corvette Coupe I'm pictured with. It may be an unusual vehicle to see on the streets of London, but will it become a classic?