On Saturday The Independent reported that home ownership in the UK is at its lowest level since the mid-80s. Looking back, home ownership levels peaked in 2003. What's happened since then to turn almost a whole generation into renters rather than home buyers?Partly it's because as prices soared ahead of the credit crunch in 2007, first-time buyers  were largely priced out of the market. But then the subsequent cut back in lending and  tighter lending restrictions has meant very few first-time buyers have  been able to afford to clamber onto the property ladder.I asked Robert Gardner, the chief economist at the Nationwide Building Society what are the factors for the drop in home ownership in the last decade."The recent decline in the home ownership rate is due to a combination of factors," he told me. "In the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis weak labour market conditions, tighter credit conditions and the uncertain economic outlook depressed the demand for homes, especially from first time buyers."The fact is there seems little incentive for first-time  buyers to attempt to climb onto the property ladder and boost  home ownership figures at the moment.According to Nationwide's latest house price figures the average property in the UK sold for £162,638 in 2012. I reckon that  means prices haven't yet fallen to a low enough level to allow many  potential new borrowers to actually be able to afford  to buy.Also, at the moment most first-time buyers need to  find a deposit of around 20 per cent, which is beyond most purses. In the  mid-2000s a 10 per cent deposit was generally all that was needed.But, perhaps more crucially, the fact that  prices have remained flat over the last year is a powerful disincentive for  first-time buyers to buy property. Let's face it, the old days when homes were  considered a safe and rising asset are long gone. These days the  opposite is often true.Robert Gardner said: "Residential property remains expensive relative to incomes by historic  standards, in part because housing is in relatively short supply. The  pace of house building, especially in England, has been running well  below the rate of household formation - a trend which is set to  accelerate if official population projections come to pass."Alarmingly research from Castle Trust last week  showed that 41 per cent of homes - equivalent to 130,000 properties in  England and Wales - have sold at a loss since the property market peaked  in 2007. The average loss was £24,430, or 11  per cent of the average house price. That's a really powerful reason  not to buy a home.I suspect most  potential homeowners are now aware of the dangers of buying an over-priced  property and then seeing their new home quickly falling into negative  equity. When that happens, many homeowners simply  can't afford to move and so remain trapped in too-small homes and rueing  the day they gave up renting.But Robert Gardner said there are signs that some of these constraints are starting to ease. "Employment is rising at a respectable pace and the Funding for Lending Scheme has achieved some success in bringing down mortgage rates, with encouraging signs of an improvement in credit availability," he said.