Follow @SharonFGrigsbyFelix Rohatyn's recent op/ed in the Financial Times touched a nerve with me, both because of his references to Detroit, my home as a young twentysomething, and the nuanced civility points in his argument.Rohatyn details his experience as a member of the team the governor of New York put together in 1975 to try to save the city from bankruptcy. In fact, while he is modest about his role, he's credited with being the catalyst for pulling disparate sides together. The takeaway from his recent column? Under threat of a paralyzing financial crisis, hard-core enemies in business and labor must unite to keep a city solvent. In the case of NYC, we're talking bold-face big-and-powerful names who rubbed shoulders with former enemies to save a city.Rohatyn expresses concern that today's bankruptcy-poster-children — Stockton, Calif., and Detroit — would not have the same success at bringing warring sides, including business and labor, together, no matter the crisis. That's mostly because of the bitter politics and extremism at the edges of the right and left. The solution seems a simple one: Realize that both sides have to succeed for either to succeed. (Sounds kinda like the rationale behind "Bridging the Gap," doesn't it?)Here's Rohatyn in his own words: "They need not abandon their principles, but they must create a climate where dialogue and compromise are possible, and mutual sacrifice may be negotiated ... The path of stalemate leads nowhere. We need to take a new direction now."So how would that 1975 New York partnership play out in Detroit 2013, where a recent Detroit Free Press headline read: "City 'dysfunctional and wasteful' after years of mismanagement, corruption"?If I were Kevyn Orr, the emergency manager appointed as a last resort to pull Detroit out of the quicksand, I'd try to recruit Rohatyn. Or maybe press into service the very wealthy and very successful Detroit native Dan Gilbert, chairman of Quicken Loans, to head up an effort similar to what Rohatyn did in NYC. Gilbert certainly seems to know how to make things work in Detroit.What does Orr have to lose? Not much, it seems to me, after spending an hour or so reading about what's been accomplished since the recent release of this latest "end times" report on Detroit's finances. Mostly political posturing, finger-pointing and gnashing of teeth.Let's hope that amid what is a herculean task of straightening out Detroit's finances Orr finds time to track down Rohatyn and persuade him to pull off a repeat of the 1975 NYC miracle.I'm rooting for Detroit — I always have. People look at me funny when I say that — or when I talk about what a great time I had living there in the late 1970s. In fact, one of the many reasons I think well of Jim Schutze is that he too has a warm spot in his heart for Detroit. (His time there WAY outdistances mine and his roots there are much deeper — but hey, he's older than me!) For all those reasons, I'll give Jim the final word — here's an excerpt from a February blog post he wrote about Detroit. It gets at why we love those underdog, frayed-around-the-edges and stumbling urban cores.Detroit still has its very tough problems — problems Dallas is extremely fortunate to have navigated around over the years. I do love living in an old Dallas neighborhood, and I am not sure I'm pioneer enough to do the same now in my old hometown. If I did, I think I might have to trade in the shotgun for a shoulder-fired missile-launcher, which I am sure would not be viewed as especially helpful of me, but, you know. Even a liberal's gotta look out for Number One sometimes.But here is a larger point that Detroit is teaching us all. No matter how beleaguered or battered, cities still exert an enormously powerful draw on people. Even when a lot of the bright lights have been shot out and the city is no longer as big as it used to be, a city is still a city, and people just love cities. Always have.All of us lucky enough to live in major cities should look on Detroit as a joyous beacon of hope. No matter how bad things get, they can get better, and the biggest motivation for fixing a city is the city itself. Those lights will be bright; that city will be big; and then how you gonna keep us down on the farm?  