Saytek, AKA Joseph Keevil, doesn't do things by halves. As well as being involved in house and techno for well over a decade, he's a family man who juggles being a father with refining his craft and performing regularly across the UK and Europe. For him, the responsibility of having a family has spurned him on to be even more motivated and aware of his actions as far as his career goes. At the end of a long summer working on his latest live album, I caught up with him to discuss all of this and more... First off, you've already released two 'Live On Cubism' album, how does the new one differ from the previous two?The last two were recorded in anticipation of performing at Space in Ibiza. Although it was my sound and my idea I had a vision of me performing live to the Terrace at Space, whereas this one was purely an album that was made for me. I could have done it for Tresor or any other club, but this time I sat in the studio and made the live album that I wanted to make, and I wanted to play.Do you think you had to get those first two done to get an understanding of how to put together a live album?It hasn't had much influence from the first two actually, because I've been doing live sets for a very, very long time. I started the live project in 2002 and, since then, I've always sat down and put together live sets that could be improvised or added to while I was performing them. This one was harder because the last two were made out of necessity, so there was a pressure there, which gave me a massive kick up the backside. This time it was very much like, 'I want to do this' but it was really challenging because I had to impose a deadline on myself and I didn't have a big gig to aim for.Self-motivation is the ultimate battle you have to go through during the creative process when you're working alone. I find it very difficult myself.I had the deadline of my son being born, I knew I couldn't do anything once he had arrived! I spent a lot longer on it than planned because I got a lot more into detail. I thought about this the other day as I wondered why, when I first started doing live sets, it took me about a week and now it takes a lot longer. I realised back then I was working with a lot of loops and so on... Now, I build everything from the ground up, a lot of sound design has gone into it and work on the hardware synthesisers - a lot more work and manipulation of sound than when I first started.Have you found it hard to knuckle down over the summer, as it's been so nice?No air-conditioning in the studio and a window that doesn't open... it was boiling! But, it was nice to have my own studio because I worked in my flat before, so the novelty of having a new space to work in definitely helped me to concentrate a lot more. I found that I was more motivated, I was surprised actually.How about juggling family life with the project and your career?It's made life a lot more serious. I've never been money-orientated but now I'm at a point in my career where I have to be a lot more serious, there's nothing else I can do and earn the same amount of money I'm getting now - I've spent my entire life working on this. I've got a beautiful family, my fiancé is a full-time mum so I'm the main provider. I genuinely believe that you can make a nice life for yourself and retain your integrity and stay 'underground'. It takes a lot of work though. If you want to go down the commercial route, you can do that, get someone to help you and likely get in the Beatport charts quite easily. On the flipside, if you're working on more underground stuff then you have to consider putting out a regular flow of music, building a fanbase slowly over time and so on, that's why the more successful underground guys are a lot older than the ones who are making commercial music. It's a longer, more considered process.Now things are more serious, do you put a lot more thought into who you approach and how you're marketing yourself then?This year I decided that I wanted to realign my career because I was getting a lot of bookings at places, which I felt weren't quite right for me to play. I made a really big decision not to take on those kind of gigs and it's worked out well, more cosmopolitan crowds and deeper, darker sounds. I don't want to be playing alongside someone who's got a commercial edge, it doesn't reflect well on me and I'm never very happy to be on the bill with that type of artist.I'm very serious about music, I love a massive range of dance music but what I like is quite specific, too. It has to be artistic and have groove and soul, but also some thought and intelligence. I can't stand cheese, not that I want to be cool but, when I hear that stuff it makes me cringe. If I'm playing with someone who's playing that kind of music it makes me feel dirty and, as I said, it can impact on how people view me as an artist.Who shaped your musical direction when you were first getting into it?In the nineties, I was very much into the second generation Detroit techno guys and the more experimental side of things, people like Aphex Twin, Squarepusher, Autechre... then I started working as a sound engineer at clubs, working at The End gave me a love of house music as well. I was there in the early 2000s for seven years doing sound and lighting, that introduced to 'tech house', before that I was a techno purist. I was never old enough to go out to the acid house raves, but I fell in love with that when I was 13, a mate gave me a tape and I got into acid house and rave music. Even back then though, I was into the deeper, darker style of music rather than all the pianos and hands-in-the-air stuff.I know a couple of guys who do underground music but also make commercial stuff under an alias to keep their heads above water. Would you ever consider that?No, I couldn't do it. I've dedicated my life to what I love, which is this music, the music I make. It's not me.What do you make of the whole ghost-writer debate? Should someone be able to make a career using music made by someone else without crediting them?There are different degrees relating to this. At one end you've got a ghostwriter at the other end you've got an engineer. I use an engineer, although it took me a while to get my head around working with someone - my problem is that I could never really finish a track, I'd always have to keep tinkering with it. With an engineer I have an extra pair of professional ears who can make my workflow more efficient and I've got no shame of admitting it. I've made over 200 tracks on my own, produced, engineered and mastered, so I can do it - having someone to help tweak my tracks is a godsend. At the other end of the scale you've got people who literally buy tracks, which is so wrong. Unfortunately, this is the world we live in at the moment. Some of the richest people in our industry can't DJ and can't make music, but they're really good business people. There's always been frauds out there, but the nature of our music means people can fake it and get away with it.There's a lot to be said about the financial aspect of this business. You need a bit of money behind you to make it to the top, there are exceptions, but generally it seems that way...It's the way of the world though isn't it? You can still get there without money, it just takes a lot longer. Any business needs money behind it, it's just that there's a shortage of investors. The potential for failure in music is so great that no one wants to invest in people, not the banks... so ultimately it's left down to mum and dad to invest, if you're lucky enough to have parents who have money to spare. You can still do it without, people with good social skills, and a good work ethic, can also get to the top.Do you have any grand plans or are you happy to maintain a good level of consistency with your career?I've been slowly climbing for a number of years and I want to continue doing that really. I'm hoping to climb a bit faster over the next couple of years; I've got releases coming out on Kevin Saunderson's KMS Recordings, Liebe Detail, I've started my own vinyl releases as well...To finish up, I wanted to go back to your family - I remember seeing that your son is quite curious about your studio gear. How would you feel about him following in your footsteps, knowing how tough the business can be?I'd support him in whatever he wants to do. I'd give him some guidance, because I've been through it myself...Saytek's 'Live On Cubism - 3' LP is available now, more information here