As one third of Apollonia Dan Ghenacia is currently embarking on a world tour of epic proportions, hitting almost every continent on the planet over the coming months to support the release of the trio's brand new album 'Tour à Tour'. Dan is also one of the key protagonists of Paris' hugely influential house scene, inspiring younger artists through his DJing, productions, his old label Freak N Chic and through owning a record shop in the French capital back in the late 90s. I caught up with him on the tail end of the US leg of their tour...(Pic Credit: Tasya Menaker) So, you guys have been on tour in the US, and you played in Las Vegas, how was that?It was surprising. It was the first time we'd played there so I guess people didn't really know us. It was at a club inside the SLS Hotel, which was really nice - they have a lot of live performances there, but they've started to put on 'underground' events for the last two months - we had 800 people there on a Sunday night, so it was a great experience.It's impressive that you guys have managed to go to so many different cities over there.Yeah, we hit Miami, New York, LA, San Francisco and many more - but it's all in support of the album. We're embarking on a five-month world tour.I've seen the schedule and it looks intense. Did you guys do much preparation or did you just think, 'This is it, we're going to do this'?[Laughs] We're just going to do it! Imagine we just finished the season in Ibiza, the last gig was 6th October, on the 7th we played the after-party, on the 8th I took a flight to Paris... the 9th I was in New York and by the 10th we had the first gig of the tour. It's good because you don't have the time to think about it or maybe worry, you just get on with it.Well, you guys seem to be up to the challenge.It's like living the dream. With Dyed and Shonky we've been working together for so many years and to be able to do a world tour together is a big accomplishment for us.Is this something that you guys have spoken about in the past?Yeah, yeah! That was our dream in the beginning when we realised that touring together was so unique and a special experience. The worst enemy of the DJ is the loneliness you can encounter while traveling and that's something we can avoid now.We are based in New York while we're in the States and we have lots of friends here, my wife Sofia is here, she has a mobile office, Shonky and his girlfried are two blocks from here... it's like being in Paris. A lot of people we hang out with in Ibiza come here during the autumn so it's perfect for the Ibiza comedown.What was the idea behind the album? Because, for me, it feels like a strong collection of dancefloor tracks.Completely. We started touring officially as Apollonia two years ago and it worked really well so we decided to sit down in the studio and make music that would feed into our back-to-back sets. There's a mix of all the tracks on the CD version, so you can understand what the idea was, since we play such long sessions, we wanted to have tracks that can be played in the afternoon, the warm-up, peak-time and after-hours - to construct the album like a mix. It's true that they're dancefloor tracks but we also give people who buy the album a great listen at home, too. I think it's great to listen to in the car. We work with our friend Philippe Zdar who mixed half of the tracks on the album and alexkid the other half. Those guys are very good with mixdowns and gave a whole other dimension to the album in respect of home listening.How do you feel about the number of dance music albums that have a grand concept but actually only have two or three tracks you actually like...?Most artists do this because it's something that journalists respect. We had some good reviews on the album, but some people didn't get it completely. The reality is, when you're a DJ, the media are important and, if you want to be nice with the media, you make a concept album. The only concept we wanted to have was to be as close to our back-to-back-to-back dynamic as we could, and that's a concept in itself. Either you get it or you don't, but we wanted to be real - I don't think it would be intelligent to make music other than what people would expect from us. Honestly, there are a lot of albums from great DJs that are so boring...I think you guys have the musical knowledge and experience to have the confidence to do an album like that...It's a simple concept; that's what we do with our label, with our DJ sets and now with our album. We bring some old school flavour, very modern textures and our own touch on the top of it. 15 years ago we were already doing this, playing old stuff, garage, minimal techno and so on... it was kind of a new way to play at the time and some people didn't get it. The easiest way for us to get the message across was when we played at after-hours parties, because at the time people were really into sticking to their one style and it was that way for a while. Today, people are much more open-minded, music-wise and you can play anything as long as it fits together. We did more than 10 gigs in North America recently and not one set sounded like the other one. This is our style and this is what we wanted to represent with the album. I remember, around 10 years ago, some promoters telling me, 'But why do you only play a little bit of this and a little bit of that?'. They didn't get it, even European promoters.What was the last album you picked up yourself? And which ones from your past have stuck with you?It's an album by Edward called 'Into A Better Future' on Giegling. The guy is really talented. He's mixed a lot of different styles together; tango and South American/Latin music with crazy electronic sounds. It really touched me.Regarding the past, not so many electronic albums. I like to listen to some of Prince's LPs of course. When it comes to electronic stuff I prefer mixes, but I couldn't name anything recent because we've been so focused on our tour and everything else over the last few months. At this point in time I don't have much need for inspiration!And what's the latest with the label?We're going to have something from a Berlin artist who I'm really excited about called Diego Krause. We're also starting to think about remixes from the album but nothing is confirmed yet.Going back to America, one of your main inspirations was an American DJ wasn't it?Yes, Mark E Quark. I was raving a little bit at home in Europe before I came to live in San Diego for a few months in 1996 and he was the first person I heard play so many different styles in a set. This was common in California at the time with the Wicked Crew and DJ Garth - they were the Bay Area heroes back then. This is my main inspiration.And I guess you got to meet Mark E Quark while you were living in California?Yes, he was a really good friend. In fact, the first time I played a proper party in front of real clubbers was through him. I'd been in San Diego for around eight months and, the day before I was due to depart for Paris, he invited me to his party, which was a Monday night party in a gay club called The Flame. I think that was the day when I realised I wanted to be a DJ. It was an amazing experience.Are you still in touch now? What does he think of your career?Yeah we still talk regularly. He's very happy to see what I'm doing and he was very pleased to see that I mentioned his name in our big Mixmag feature - I will always talk about him. He's still in San Diego and working for a vinyl company. He never really travelled too much outside America but he's doing his thing.Have you tried to convince to come and DJ with you guys?I'm waiting for the perfect moment to do it, but I think it's going to come soon...Apollonia's album Tour a Tour is out now, for more information click here Follow Marcus on @mgoldenbarnes