Mic Newman AKA Fantastic Man hails from Melbourne in Australia, but relocated to Europe a few years ago - starting off in London before heading to Berlin, where he is currently based. He returns to London this coming Sunday for a daytime party called Virtue, so I caught up with him ahead of the event for a quick chat... What would you say was the key track/artist that really inspired you to get into making music? What was it about that particular track/artist that really inspired you more than anything else?I was always into music in some capacity from a really young age; my father was a classical guitarist as well as being in some bands. My earliest memory of music was him shredding away at some classics, one in particular was Asturias by Fernando Sor. I think it gave me the confidence to take up guitar at school. I could never quite match his shredding prowess but it was definitely the beginning of my musical endeavors.What steps did you take in order to make the music thing happen for you? For instance, how did you get hold of the necessary equipment/software, how did you learn to make music etc...?I had access to my Dad's Korg Triton, which was pretty 'lush' and digital. So I'd record that into Pro Tools without having any kind of keyboard skills or - more importantly - midi capabilities, cause I didn't know what that was. So this went on for about six months and it was kinda cool, but also the most backwards process. The results were absolutely shithouse. After all this I discovered the existence of midi using Cubase, so now I was drawing the music instead of play it. I soon moved onto Logic and finally Ableton Live. More recently I've been acquiring more and more hardware and doing my best to be as independent from the sequencer. I guess it's an evolving process. You have to keep changing it up to keep things interesting.Can you remember some of the earliest tracks you made? What kind of style were you aiming for? Anyone in particular who you wanted to sound like?I honestly can't remember and I'm sure it's too cringeworthy to discuss.Which of your earliest productions really pushed you on to keep making more music? What was it about that track that stood out from the rest?I guess the ones that the people and the record labels liked.How has your sound evolved and developed since those early days?I'd say it's evolved a lot. It's more a matter of taste really, which has changed considerably over time. Hopefully it's got better. It's probably just got weirder, though.In Melbourne, who were the local DJs and producers who you looked up to (if any)?Can't say there were too many inspiring producers on the scene at that time. There were loads of local DJs. Although, almost everybody was a DJ. Actually, wait... that hasn't changed much at all. Yeah I don't know really, my mentors changed along the way with my taste.How has moving to Europe changed your outlook/approach to music?It burst my bubble.What did you find particularly enjoyable/inspiring about living in London?London is one of my favourite places. You really get the feeling that something big could happen there, and I like that people are actually going for it. I also love that it's progressive, diverse, and spontaneous. I also love jerk chicken.Likewise, how has Berlin shaped you as an artist?Berlin has a slightly different energy. It's home to a bunch of people who need more time and space to be creative without the added stress. It flows at more leisurely pace - which aligns perfectly with me right now. Artistically, I can't say it's had a particularly major impact, which is a good thing. I think lots of artists lose their identity a bit when they end up in Berlin.You're back in London soon for Virtue, what are you looking forward to most about coming back here?Seeing my friends, having a pint of crap beer and generally getting my London fix!Is there anything you really miss about Australia or Melbourne itself?Family, friends, beach and weather.Do you have any firm plans/ambitions for the future?Sure, I guess so. Why not...Virtue takes place this Sunday at Studio Spaces in Shoreditch for more information click here 