 

This week Club 2 Club returns to Turin in Italy, with a superb line-up made up of electronic and pop acts who push the boundaries of both genres. It's a great concept that utilises the city's many club spaces to give every artist a chance to shine, while offering visitors a glimpse at new acts or musicians they may not have considered listening to before. I chatted with the organisers recently to get the lowdown on the festival...When did the Club 2 Club concept first come about?The idea first came to us in 2002; the original Club To Club, like the name suggests, took over different city clubs at the same time, allowing people to hop from a venue to another during the night.Was there a particular reason why you guys decided to start C2C (to improve the club scene in Turin? To promote new artists to clubbers in Turin?...) Basically, what was your aim with the festival?
Prior to becoming a cultural enterprise and devising Club To Club, the three co-founders ran a weekly "party" for years, attracting every weekend people from all over Italy with new music, and inviting international as well as Italian guests. At the time, Turin was a true laboratory for innovative sound. Those experiences laid the foundation on which Club To Club is built.What is the core ethos behind the whole event? What's the message that you want to portray with what you are doing?Club To Club is an ongoing investigation of the boundaries between pop and avant-garde, made possible by dedication and driven by passion.How easy/difficult was it to get the very first event organised?The first Club To Club wasn't much more complex than what we already did at the time; we were just a handful of people though, so everyone had to cover more than one role in the organisation. I do remember perceiving the leap forward though when we did an event at former FIAT factory Lingotto for the first time: it was impressive.Who did you book for the first ever C2C?Kompakt and 20:20 Vision showcases.How has the event grown/evolved since the very first one?We have grown in many ways. The lineup expanded from a couple of international artists into the rich and diverse bill of today, refusing genre constrictions; at the same time, the audience has grown up to 35,000 people. In its first decade of existence, the festival visited various cities across Europe including Berlin, Barcellona and Rotterdam before landing in London and Istanbul, where Club To Club is present on an yearly basis.Have your ambitions with the event changed much since that first one? Do you now have new goals and targets you want to achieve? If so, what are they?As mentioned before we like to push the boundaries between avant-garde and pop, this is our current goal.
We want Club To Club to fully develop and reach as many people as possible without compromising its true nature, embracing the cultural resources of its territory while exporting its format.Have you made any changes to the organisation of this year's event? Any new venues or new ways or working??Many changes have taken place since last year. To name a few: our new daytime HQ hotel is packed with exclusive talks featuring among others The Designers Republic and Bleep; we doubled the nights in the biggest venue (the aforementioned Lingotto), where the main stage will be co-hosted by London-based festival Field Day and online boutique music store Bleep; moreover, on Sunday 9th November, 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, we'll take over the whole neighbourhood of San Salvario with a Berlin-themed day of music, open air markets, talks and food.Who are you really excited to see performing at this year's event?I'm especially looking forward to seeing Californian vocalist Kelela, Bristolian Vessel, the first ever set together of Ben UFO and Ron Morelli and the Hyperdub 10th anniversary show at amazing baroque theatre Teatro Carignano with our friend Kode9 and Laurel Halo.Tell me a bit about the club/festival scene in Turin... I'm familiar with the guys behind Movement etc, and C2C of course, but what else is going on there?Turin has always been rich in terms of club nights. Many venues have recently been shut down and offer has become a little scarcer; nevertheless, in the last years we had the chance to see artists of the likes of Grimes perform in a 200-people basement. Music is relevant.And what about local artists, which Turin musicians would you recommend listening to/checking out?Amongst all the talented ones (and they are many), we really like Vaghe Stelle, OOBE, DYD and Stump Valley.
Which other cities in Italy would you recommend checking out for great electronic music?I'm not sure we can talk about specific cities since there are no proper scenes yet, but we could say there are new, interesting things moving in Milan.What's your vision of how C2C might be in 10 years time?In many different countries, at the same time, with the same spirit. For more information click here