

Pete Tong's position within the electronic music industry is about as high as one could imagine. Together with his MBE, he hosts two huge radio shows (one in the US and the other here in the UK), is recognised as one of the industry's key tastemakers and DJs all over the world on a regular basis, as well as running his label FFRR. With decades of experience he was the perfect person to join this year's Burn Residency as a mentor, I recently spoke to Pete all about the role...So how's it all been going?Really well, it's a very rewarding thing to do. As soon as they asked me, same with Carl [Cox], it just appealed to me. I've worked with Burn before, through IMS, and I've always thought that their intentions were good. They're constantly trying to tweak the competition and the process to ensure they get a better result - with this crew they almost seem annoyed if they can't give the contestants the best shot at each stage. It's an incredible opportunity for them all.Did you have time to give it much thought in terms of your approach?Yeah, we did a lot of back and forth with Phillip and the agency that are running things and my team, they had a good idea about what they wanted to get out of it. Some of it was quite hands-on with the remix challenge for instance; I had to give them the stems to a John Digweed and Nick Muir track and they didn't know that, a couple of days later, John was actually going to come in and we were going to judge them all. We sat there last Thursday going through 18 remixes and come back to them - we whittled it down to three, and we had to tell a few of them that they were rubbish as well. The quality was good and some were exceptional.Even though it appealed to you, were you daunted by the prospect of being involved?Not really... it's funny, I spend my whole life public speaking, but in a private way with the radio and stuff. Even today I still don't feel I'm a natural public speaker, I think I'm getting better at - funnily enough through doing IMS actually - but the format they have here has been very comfortable for me so it's good. Sometimes I get a bit bored of my own voice though!Is there anyone in particular who's stood out for you so far?Yeah there are a few, I don't if I'm allowed to say though. It's funny, the ones who excelled in the production weren't necessarily as good in the DJing challenges. I'm such a believer in the old school values of DJing, and that's probably my biggest fear about what's being lost in the modern-day with all the EDM stuff.It's like production is the entry point for a lot of young people.Exactly, and then they have to learn to DJ in public and don't get it right. Of course, because it's something you learn over many years. Yeah and I think coming from the bedroom with a big hit, they have to play hits - so they're thrust in at a level where they don't have time or space to take a risk and so their DJing skills just don't develop at all.And speaking about yourself, did you have anyone who was a mentor when you were a youngster?Way back in the day when I was in school I'd consider Chris Hill a mentor of mine, he really really helped me. Robbie Vincent, from a radio perspective really supported me. I had a guy, who's still around today, the head of Capital Radio who had the most profound influence on what I actually did on the air - Richard Parke. Andy Parfit and Matthew Bannister at Radio 1, particularly Andy, for really putting me where I was and giving me the opportunity to influence other output - they lent on me heavily in the early days, from bringing in Westwood, Judge Jules, Danny Rampling and getting the chance to do the Essential Mix... and then leaving me there. People always say, 'How did the show get to be this, that and the other?' - I always say, 'Well, you leave someone there long enough and things start to work!'. So they were a big influence on me. To watch all of the Burn Residency webisodes, click here