Follow @SharonFGrigsby

The Washington Post's Outlook section had some "spring cleaning" fun this past Sunday with its "10 Things to Toss" feature. Various writers offered up funny ideas worthy of throwing out (flip flops, retweets, compliments) and serious ones (the term "working mom," automatic tax withholding and red lines). Another writer wants to toss Ben Bernanke at the end of his term, although the tone of his argument is respectful."Tone" is the point of my blog post, specifically the tone of former Post defense reporter and now author Thomas Ricks. What did Ricks select "to toss"? Texas.OK, I can go there with him ... Texas traditionally takes a lot of well-deserved ridicule from all corners. We ask for it in many cases, so no surprise we are the only state suggested by the Beltway Bunch for tossing. And Ricks is somewhat accurate when he says Texans have been clamoring about leaving the Union. (But as you will see, for dramatic effect, Ricks paints everything in this essay in black-and-white caricature. No nuance necessary.)But this is the paragraph that stopped me cold — and the reason I decided to blog on it: After all, what has Texas given us? Without it, we might have avoided the presidents who gave us two of our longest and least necessary wars — Vietnam and Iraq — and John F. Kennedy might still be alive.Ricks continues: It would be harder to drive from New Orleans to Tucson. Perhaps we could hold on to the interstate highways through the former state — we built them, after all. They could be like the corridors for driving to West Berlin back in the days of the Soviet empire.It's the JFK line I have struggled with since reading this piece Monday. I don't have super "Dallas sensitivities" about the assassination, but I know a lot of the city's residents did and do. Ditto for other places in the state. (I was a very young child in Waco in 1963 and thus missed a lot of the national scorn toward Dallas, "the city of hate," and Texas in general. I dug up this piece from former Dallas journalist Peter Applebome, written for the New York Times on the 25th anniversary of the assassination for those of you who need a reference point.)So Ricks has a great time demeaning us — and by virtue of this blog post, I suspect I'm falling into his trap of being typecast as overly sensitive or overly "Texan." But, wow, he really has a chip on his shoulder about this state — and, among the wry humor and thoughtful perspectives of the other pieces in the "things to toss"  package, his stood out as just plain mean-spirited. Sorry, but I think one-liners about a president's assassination are out of bounds, especially as we all commemorate the 50th anniversary of his passing.I've copied the entire Ricks essay after the jump so you can decide for yourself. When you're finished, treat yourself and read this Sarah Hepola essay from last summer on Why I hated Dallas — and how I fell in love with it.By Thomas E. RicksFor decades, Texans have been clamoring about leaving the Union. Letting the Lone Star State secede would set a bad precedent. (See the Civil War of 1861 to 1865.) But what about expelling it instead? There is promise in that.I've been thinking about this ever since I stood at the ruins of Fort Jesup, a U.S. Army base built in 1822 by Lt. Col. Zachary Taylor on the western edge of Louisiana to guard the Sabine River, which formed the international border between the United States and Texas, then part of Mexico. Why not go back to that situation? It worked then.After all, what has Texas given us? Without it, we might have avoided the presidents who gave us two of our longest and least necessary wars — Vietnam and Iraq — and John F. Kennedy might still be alive.We wouldn't have the Dallas Cowboys, nor the right-wing oilmen the state seems to produce. Of course, we would also lose Gov. Rick Perry, who already is making the split easier with his talk of moving the roughly $1 billion in Texas gold reserves, now in a vault in New York, back into the state.There's a lot of great music out of Texas, from Lightnin' Hopkins and Bob Wills to Buddy Holly, Janis Joplin, Lyle Lovett and Archie Bell  the Drells. But we could still listen to them, just as we enjoy the sounds of such Canadian crooners as Neil Young, Joni Mitchell and Feist.Sure, there would be some problems. It would be harder to drive from New Orleans to Tucson. Perhaps we could hold on to the interstate highways through the former state — we built them, after all. They could be like the corridors for driving to West Berlin back in the days of the Soviet empire. Having Texas floating free could be destabilizing for Mexico — but we could probably build some fences to help handle that.Texans have that Lone Star flag all set. I think they're ready to fly solo and lonely once again. Let them go.Thomas E. Ricks, a former defense reporter for The Washington Post, is the author of five books about the U.S. military, most recently "The Generals: American Military Command From World War II to Today." 