Just out of a board meeting with DISD Superintendent Mike Miles, a constructive conversation that again offered examples of why I maintain that he is the right leader for this district.We talked about many things — from pre-K funding to how the latest math TEKS are stressing districts across North Texas. But then came the headline event: The troubles at Dade Middle School.Miles maintained that he couldn't talk about details of the investigation at Dade. No matter how many ways we framed the questions — whether about the Coggins hiring (our editorial here) or the incident involving the rude removal of trustee Bernadette Nutall from the campus — Miles quietly and steadfastly urged us to wait until the facts of that investigation come out before deciding what was or was not justified.I still wish he had stopped the forcible removal of Nutall back on Oct. 13, which is at the heart of the investigation. However, I've always maintained that what was most important out of all the sorry news about Dade Middle School was to make sure Dade is now operating at a high level on behalf of the students there.Miles' conversation with us about what was going on at the school before the leadership change was helpful in better understanding the actions he took to make over Dade's staff.Miles also voiced concern about us not throwing any staffer under the bus as a result of our conversation with him today. And he has concerns that the district — starting with him — put a principal into a position he probably wasn't ready for. "That's my responsibility," Miles said.In that "Miles way" that infuriates some but impresses me, he basically said: "Hey, you are all upset about me regarding the Nutall removal, what you ought to be beating me up about is in regard to the school leadership being over its head."Some things I learned for the first time today:- Among the concerns Miles had heard before his October visit to Dade: A student was beaten unconscious on school grounds while a teacher looked on.- During his visit, Miles observed poor (my word, not his) leadership decisions ranging from students not being supervised in the stairwells to large numbers of students going to and from the cafeteria at the same time, creating unnecessary chaos, to staff yelling at students, again creating drama over what Miles saw as not a big deal.- During a block of time set aside specifically for instruction in core areas in which the middle-schoolers were struggling, one class was sitting in the cafeteria (no it wasn't lunchtime) doing pretty much nothing. No books, no paper, no teaching. This was not an issue of the assignment not being spelled out on the board, this was kids doing nothing.- What Miles observed in the situation described above was replicated, to various degrees, in everything he saw at Dade that day.Miles stressed that the problem at hand was not one of discipline or gangs. It was about leadership and, more important, about the lack of quality instruction. The lack of discipline was a direct result of the staff's lack of expectations.Miles also noted that this is a new school, in just its second year, and one that has brought together students from two previously rival campuses. Clearly, despite trying to address what they knew would be challenges, the district fell short in preparation. Again, Miles took responsibility for that.Miles also noted that, especially in our most struggling schools — and Dade clearly qualifies — it's easy to fall into the lowered expectations trap. He's not going to stand for that; more importantly, he's not going to allow students to potentially suffer as a result of a school staff giving off any whiff of that.The superintendent said he understands our frustration that he can't (due to the investigation, he says) talk about the political firestorm between him and Nutall. He indicates he's frustrated too, to not be able to share more details.But as has been the case in previous political dramas since Miles came into the district, he seems to be mostly at peace with this latest mess and, instead, way more fired up about how students at Dade were being terribly shortchanged.Yes, I wish Miles would have told us that, if he had a do-over, he would have intervened in trustee Nutall's removal to make sure it wasn't handled as it was. People who know me know that I think that leading with kindness and compassion is a lot better than leading with tough-guy tactics.But if I had a kid at Dade, I'd care a lot more about my child receiving quality instruction in the classroom than whether my ISD representative was roughly escorted out of the building. And, in effect, we all have a kid at Dade. Because the challenges at Dade are the kind of problems that have to be fixed if this district is going to lure middle-income families to take a chance on it.The very best possible classroom instruction — and getting the resources to teachers to make sure they can meet that bar — is Job No. 1. I believe Miles is relentlessly focused on that. And I think it's important to get that word out to the public. 