Morcheeba found fame in the mid-Nineties, hitting the big time with songs such as 'The Sea' and 'Part Of The Process'. Timeless hits that still resonate today. As part of what was labelled the 'trip hop movement' the group toured the globe and produced a slew of albums, which encompassed a variety of musical styles. But the trip hop label stuck and, though they have continued to work on music since the mid-nineties (albeit for their split in 2003), they had all but been forgotten. However, they are 'back', so to speak, with a new album ('Head Up High') which is also being supported by a tour.Earlier this year the group made a return to the stage in London with an intimate gig, which was a resounding success. Last week though, they appeared on a larger stage, at The Forum in Kentish Town, putting their new material to the test with a larger crowd.The Forum was surprisingly packed upon entry, bear in mind this was a Tuesday night and the majority of Morcheeba's fans appeared to be upwards of 30. This was certainly a good sign, proving at the very least that they have some pull after all these years.Paul and Ross Godfrey and Skye Edwards had already visited most of Europe by the time they reached London. Among their stop offs were Prague, Frankfurt, Bordeaux, Zurich and many more cities as part of their European tour. When the band finally graced the stage, they were of course met with a huge round of applause, Skye beaming in a Bjork-esque white dress the bottom half of which was made up of feathers.Opening with 'Make Believer', a song from their new album, Morcheeba were in full flow from the off. It was a slow but assured start to their show and suited the Tuesday evening crowd perfectly. They then proceeded to work their way through several more album tracks, just as Skye had promised when she arrived on stage. It was clear most of the crowd didn't know the songs, but they were received well and keep everybody buoyant. The energy throughout was reasonably laid back, you couldn't help feeling that the group should have maybe been a bit more animated or interacted with the crowd a bit more - just to ramp things up a little. Yes, their music is for the most part, chilled out, but it would have been nice if they'd have encouraged their audience to let loose.Other album tracks that made their way into the show included recent single 'Gimme Your Love'. The trippy, bass-heavy song worked a treat while the the funky guitar riff on 'Face Of Danger' also got the foot tappers moving. Hits like 'The Sea' and 'Part Of The Process' were inevitable additions to the set list and among the highlights of the show.Overall, great music but a shame there was not a bit more verve from the band or the crowd.Follow Marcus Barnes' www.hoxton.fm radio show via soundcloud.com/marcus_barnes