Follow @SharonFGrigsby

I've seen and heard some potential game-changers in my years of directing our newspaper's "Bridging Dallas' North-South Gap" project, but I never thought that my short list would include something that happened at the Dallas Country Club.DMN City Hall reporter Rudy Bush and I were on hand this morning for former Trammell Crow CEO J. McDonald (Don) Williams' speech to a group of the city's top developers. Nothing I can write here competes with Williams' words, so I am turning the floor over to him here, thanks to Rudy's post. (The photo at right shows Don Williams, left, receiving one of the many leadership awards that have come his way over the years.)Those of us who have had the privilege of working with Don on efforts on behalf of southern Dallas weren't surprised by anything he said — or the bald way in which he said it. Don Williams is one of those compassionate servant-leaders who was fighting for southern Dallas well before our newspaper got in the trenches.What I found most significant in his speech were the specific examples of development opportunities he provided, complete with maps and stats.Particularly intriguing were the possibilities he painted for Fair Park (the fairgrounds proper). Longtime readers know many of us have been troubled by the seeming miles of empty parking lots and, much of the year, unused space inside Fair Park proper. It's a particularly painful issue because so many homes of South Dallas residents were mowed down to make room for all that parking — a horrendous decision that exemplifies why residents are so often suspicious of any outsider. Williams suggested taking the western half of the grounds and allowing developers to build good housing and retail there — preserving the art deco buildings as educational facilities. The State Fair would retain the east side for the yearly extravaganza and UT-OU game.What a great idea! I hope enough of the developers in the audience will find the political will to rise up and make some of Don Williams' challenges a reality.In other southern Dallas-related news, I'll call readers attention to these latest examples of great things happening in the southern half of our city, courtesy of Tod Robberson's editorial today on "Dallas drug gang exits, neighborhood revives" and resident Ken Smith's second column for our Viewpoints page this year, this one on "A number-cruncher's guide to transforming South Dallas."