Over the last couple of years I've kept a keen eye on my former home, Bristol - without a doubt one of the UK's hotspots for music of many forms. My first connection with the West Country city came via drum n bass; Roni Size, DJ Krust, DJ Die, MC Dynamite, Bill Reilly and many others inspiring me to move west, where I went to university. I also discovered groups like Massive Attack and Portishead, Tricky and many more great artists who came from Bristol.Fast forward over a decade and the city is still booming, and party promoters Pardon My French are two guys with their fingers on the pulse. The twosome, Luke Sutton and Tim Smith, have been hard at it for a few years, slowly but surely creeping up the ranks in Bristol (and further afield) with their own distinct brand of party vibes; with disco, house and various other forms of dance music intertwined at their events. They also give away bread and cheese at every event, which is a massive plus. Here's an exclusive mix from the duo and some words, too. Pardon My French - Independent Podcast by Marcus_BarnesHow did Pardon My French first get started?
Fresh out of Sixth Form, which we both attended in the delightful  Wiltshire market town of Devizes, we put on a one-off clubnight named  after a Bloc Party song. It was called Positive Tension, and it wasn't  very good, or busy. We eventually changed the music policy, the location (moved it to Bristol) and name, and started a radio show called 'Pardon  My French' on Hub Radio, which was nearly four years ago now.What was the original ethos behind it?
To play as many tunes off DFA Records as possible, and take as much credit as possible.Can you tell us about the first Pardon My French party?
In Bristol's Stokes Croft area is The Bank, a really good late night  bar. We fancied doing something a little different to set ourselves  apart from the many other quality house nights around in Bristol at the  time it began. Naturally, we decided the best option would be give out  free French cheese and baguettes. On the walls of a PMF party we'd post  up set times for the DJs, as well as cheese, on when each variety  would be brought. To this very day, punters are more excited for free  cheese than they are on seeing us, and our carefully selected guests.How has your whole set-up as Pardon My French evolved since it first started?
The only thing that has evolved has been a wider array of party shirts  and Tim's beard. The set-up has remained exactly the same with the two  of us.What have you learned about promoting parties?
The main thing is that nobody ever arrives to a night before 11.30.What have you got coming up?
One of the most exciting things is that we'll be hosting our own stage  at Farr Festival this year, just north of London, with a few of our  favourites including Outboxx and Alfresco Disco. We're also looking  forward to our Ibiza and Croatia debuts, as part of Crack Magazine  residency. We'll be popping up at Glastonbury too, and a few other  festivals.What promotions/parties have really inspired you?
Alfresco Disco, concentrating on putting on amazing parties with great  decor, great venues etc. rather than building a night around one headline  act.Which recent parties have made an impression on you?
A great bunch of people recently launched Arc Festival in Bristol, held  in Eastville Park. Essentially, six tents of techno, great visuals,  great sound, no nonsense, it was bloody marvellous. There's also Studio  89 in Cardiff which books our favourite house and disco names in small  basement underneath a noodle bar.Another great event was  Alpfresco, run by Alfresco Disco, held in the Tirol region of Austria.  Lots of skiing and parties in classic Austrian settings.Tell us about the following...
Best ever party experience?
We've already mentioned Alfresco Disco but they put on a new year's  party in a mansion on the outskirts of Bristol, allowing 700 people to  literally run riot in a massive house and its grounds. There was even a  secret room behind a bookcase.Worst ever party experience?
Has to be well over three years ago when we trundled all the way across  Wales to play an all-student festival (which we won't name). Calvin  Harris was on during our set on the main stage. We'll leave it at that.Best festival?
GLASTONBURYPardon My French anthem?
Tensnake - Holding Back (My Love)Pardon My French motto?
SACRE BLEU!The tune that got you into this crazy world of music?
Soulwax - KrackWhat have you been listening to recently? 
Our pal Christophe from Bristol has just done a really cool  boogie/disco track on Futureboogie with Crazy P's lead singer Danielle  Moore, it comes with a tasty remix from Casino Times too. Most tunes  from Nick Chacona still gets us going. Aside from dance tracks, the new !!! (chk chk chk) album is really great.One to watch (new DJ/producer we should be aware of)Hard to pick just one. We're really big fans of Earl Grey at the  moment, who's just realised this six-track EP of weird trippy slow jams,  and it's great. Also, some friends in Berlin have recently launched Odd  Socks Records, and anything off their roster is worth a listen.What advice would you give to someone who's thinking about starting their own party?
Have a selling point but cheese and bread is taken.What does the future hold for you both?
After the summer, we're planning a party for four years of Pardon My  French, so look out for that. It's going to be great, and not in our  usual location.Tell us a bit about the mix you've done.
We rarely get the chance to play really slow weird music which makes up  a lot of our tastes, particularly sub 110BPM, so we've done a mix  entirely of those kinda tracks. Also, we wanted to keep it in line with  the time of the year, which is technically summer. So expect soft airy  melodies mixed with some deep grooves, best enjoyed in the long shadows  of a warm evening.For more information on Pardon My French head over to their Facebook page here
Follow Marcus Barnes' www.hoxtonfm.co.uk radio show via soundcloud.com/marcus_barnes