Ever since the very early days of my love affair with house and techno, mulletover has always been a club promotion I was fascinated with. It was thanks to a couple of recorded mixes from their Halloween party in 2010 that I discovered people like M A N I K, and ever since I've wanted to visit one of their legendary parties - especially the Halloween one.I've had the opportunity to pop down to a couple of their parties, and had a great time while I was at it. Always on point with their line-ups, production and general approach to the whole clubbing set up - mulletover are leaders in their field, with a huge following and an almost mythical reputation.Their work ethic speaks for itself, climbing their way up the ranks from small, often illegal, soirees in east London back in the mid-2000s, to huge warehouse raves just a few years later they've succeeded where others have failed by refusing to buckle to pressure and only throwing a few select parties every year. They could easily throw one party a month, but that would erode that special feeling you get when the time finally comes around for another mulletover bash.The crew is comprised Stuart Geddes, resident DJ and hard-working promoter, along with Rob Star - another stalwart of the London party scene. Together they've built up the mulletover brand from its rather humble beginnings to the leviathon of warehouse parties it has become.My first experience of mulletover was when they hosted a room at Eastern Electrics' New Year's Eve party in 2010/11. I'll never forget the moment my friend Jermaine and I walked in, dropped our coats and headed straight for the mulletover room, where Jamie Jones was preparing for the midnight countdown. The room was heaving with bodies, we pushed our way almost to the front and waited around 20 minutes for midnight to arrive, at which point I filmed the video below - such great memories.As well as their standing within the London club scene, the crew at mulletover have also turned their hand to the mystical White Island - Ibiza. Heading over there some years ago, they threw several infamous illegal parties - one of which resulted in a member of the mulletover crew being taken into custody.When things got a little too risky, they took a break from throwing parties in Ibiza to concetrate on the London campaign - however, this year saw mulletover's return to the world's party capital, teaming up with Manchester club Sankeys, who've only recently opened an Ibiza incarnation of their famous enterprise. It was an almighty combination and an awesome experience - one which I was lucky enough to be a part of during a visit to Ibiza in June.As an example of how party promoters should operate, the mulletover crew is second to none - never letting greed overpower their focus on giving people a great time and maintaining their professionalism, something that is all too lacking in many of the up-and-coming promoters out there.With the year quickly coming to an end (I can't believe it's August already!), Stuart and Rob are preparing for their annual Halloween party, which this year has run into a slight hitch. As many of those reading this will know, the original venue they had acquired - the London Pleasure Gardens - went into the red recently after the disastrous Bloc fiasco. Now the team is venue-less and searching for somewhere to accommodate its loyal following on the 3rd November. It's something they've become accustomed to, but nevertheless it must be quite stressful. Not that you'd know it - a press release went out last week with a very tongue-in-cheek lonely hearts theme to it. it read:Club night lonely hearts column: London based house night seeks new venue for one night stand: (3rd November 2012)"Notoriously promiscuous underground night boasts: "It's something we're used to and seems to haunt us since our beginning, another venue change!' and is excited to share an, 'even better experience' with new venue. Not afraid to take risks and perfectly in tune to (multiple) lover's every want and desire is looking for massive new space for Halloween fancy dress special; freaks and demons please do apply."I saw Geddes recently and he seemed completely calm about the whole thing, which is reassuring. No doubt they'll find somewhere special for the party, which I have still haven't experienced... yet.

For ticket/venue information, click HERE. For more information on mulletover, click HERE. 