Follow @SharonFGrigsby

I like to compete in distance races. I also like to go to church. Yesterday those two sources of inspiration collided.As blog readers know, I moved back to Dallas from Rockwall last year. Among my experiences has been learning what it's like to be a resident of the part of the city where so many foot races take place. It's something I never gave much thought to in the dozens of races I've competed in on Dallas streets.Living in the midst of the most popular race routes is a hassle. But a hassle is all it is — not a big deal most weekends. And certainly nothing I'd take blog space to rant about.But scheduling a popular and nationally advertised half marathon with over 14,000 registered participants on Palm Sunday really seems out of line to me. Those who choose to attend church deserve more respect than that. Easter and Palm Sunday are the Big Two — given that Christmas falls on Sunday only every seven years or so. Couldn't church-goers catch a break on those dates?Happily, I wasn't one of the scores of church-goers who piled in late at my little neighborhood Methodist congregation. (That was only because — as a runner myself, I keep up with the race schedule so I left way early and figured out a back route.) If you think Jesus had harsh words for the money changers at the temple, you should have heard what my fellow pew-sitters had to say about the runners.Looking at the Rock n Roll Half Marathon map, I could easily pinpoint more than a dozen churches that were caught in the street closures just in the portion of the race closest to my home. Who knows what the total number of affected churches was.Laity and church staff alike had clearly put a load of work into our Palm Sunday service. I'm sure that was the case at churches everywhere in North Texas. Scheduling this race on Palm Sunday seemed dismissive and unfair to them all. I hope that in the future those at City Hall who were involved in approving this race would say no to major Sunday races on religious Holy Days. 