With a career spanning three decades, Dimitri From Paris has pretty much seen it all. A man who prides himself on maintaining a professional approach to each and every aspect of his career from playing records, to producing and the aesthetics of his products - as well as his own personal style - Dimitri is a globally-respected purveyor of good quality music from disco right through to house. He's set to release a brand new compilation with house giants Defected.How did your new compilation for Defected come about?I have a history of doing mixes for Defected, I think I've done five now. The first one I did was for the 'In The House' series, and this is called 'Back In The House' - in between we did a few different things, we did 'In The House Of Love', which is one of my favourites, it's a take on the romantic side of mix CDs. And we had the Playboy compilations, one by myself and the last one with Bob Sinclar. I think it's interesting to go back to the first one and focus on house music, because that's what Defected do - house. It's probably the only label that has such a long history and credibility with house music, as a generic word as opposed to niche stuff, and I'm happy to be there year after year playing the stuff I like. That was the idea as I hadn't done anything that was strictly house in quite a while.You've been DJing for 30 years, what would you say has helped you sustain such a long career?For me its really important that [the music I play] is understandable by the people - I'm not one of these people who's closed in their world, I like to share my ideas. I like a lot of things, but if you present them all at once they might get a little lost, so I'm always trying to get people into my thing but without going into the most obscure thing straight away - I try to get them into something that they're not used to because they're used to all those DJs playing familiar sounds. When I'm in a club I have to seduce them into my groove, I don't want to scare them away - I don't want to say, "Well this is what I play, take it or leave it", because the chances are they'll leave it. You have to get people into what your universe is, but you want them to have a good time, you don't want to bore them with stuff they don't understand. The same goes with everything that goes with my personality, whether it's a CD or a mix set, it always has to be accessible. And 'accessible' doesn't have to be dumbed-down, it can be interesting and sophisticated. A lot of people think that to be accessible it has to be the most stupid thing possible, because 'half the world is stupid and we need them to get it'. It does work if you make it super simple, but you can also make it a little less simple and people will understand and appreciate that.Yeah if you're always trying to sell people the lowest common denominator then you're underestimating them to a degree... a lot of people are open to stuff if you push it a bit. Well, that's what I've found out over the years - you have to play things they can relate to but not only that. The more you play things they're surprised to hear, and surprised to like, that's how you build your reputation and how you stay in the business shall we say, because I've been in the business 30 years. I've never tried to follow trends, I always try to adapt by playing stuff that's up to date because I don't want to be 'retro', I'm not stuck in one era, I take the best from each era and choose what I can make people dance with.And you've taken the same approach with your new mix?I wanted it to be more 'current' so there's a lot of newer tracks in there rather than going way back - I just wanted to find what I liked, in what's being made recently, and would fit nicely in a mix. The only older thing I've put in there is a remix of an old Dan Hartman song - I'd been playing it at gigs for a long time and a lot of people were asking for it, so I thought it would be a good finale to the CDs. It's a much more contemporary compilation because I wanted it that way, I wanted to showcase the stuff that I find interesting today and the stuff I play in clubs today.How long did it take to record the mixes? Did you do them in one take?There are two CDs, one is a live CD so it was indeed recorded in one take when I played for Defected at the regular gig they have at the Horse  Groom [in Shoreditch, east London] - that was recorded 100% live, I wanted to keep the audience sounds in there too. The other one was recorded at my studio. I like to use both approaches - I like the instant feel of a live mix and I also like to fiddle a lot and find the perfect mix, change things around... things that you wouldn't be able to do in a live mix, so I think it's interesting to have both so people can try and hear if there's a difference between the two.I really like hearing the audience in live recordings.Something that's recorded live but doesn't have the crowd is too sterile for me - it's important to have the crowd to get a picture of how it happened.It adds to the whole feeling of the mix. Absolutely, and a lot of the music makes sense when you hear the crowd react to it, it's like taking it out of it's context when you remove the crowd from the CD. It's important to have it how it happened.Exactly, and how did you like playing the Horse  Groom?I love it, because it's very small and intimate. I've always favoured intimate spaces rather than huge rooms so for me it was a perfect environment, super-friendly so I loved it.

In terms of your approach to DJing has much changed, I know you're not that keen on festivals?Not much has changed in the last ten years, pop music will always be changing of course but the clubs, how they book DJs, how people react to DJs... it's always been based on how much of a celebrity you are to the people in front of you, how much authority you have, how much they know you. The more they know you the more they will accept from you - this is the number one rule, so if I play in a place where not many people know me, I have to stick to a middle ground of music because they won't let me get away with much. If I can feel that they know me and I get a warm welcome from the crowd, then they'll be more accepting and open more than the people who don't know me. To this day I can play in clubs where people know me, don't know me and everything in between, it's all down to when I get there, gauging the crowd and seeing what I can do with that. DJs have been taken out of the DJ booth and put on stages, in the spotlight and this is something that has been happening over the past ten to fifteen years and, for me, the festival is the climax of that. A huge stage with a huge audience, but all you do is stand behind a set of turntables and play records - to me it doesn't make any sense at all. People seem to have a good time, but I don't have much to show and a lot of the other guys don't have much to show either but that's why they come up with gimmicks, like a huge mouse mask or waving their hands in the air non-stop - stuff that doesn't have much to do with what you are doing. So it just forces people to put on a show... when the show is the music and if the music is the show you should really concentrate on hearing it in the best possible way, rather than watching it.

Yeah, completely. It's different to watching a band.When you're watching a band I understand because you want to watch the drummer, the guitar player do a solo, the singer sing... but when you replace it with a guy playing records, it's a complete scam done by promoters who realised they could make much more money with DJs than they can with bands, where they have to deal with 25 egos at all once, now they have to deal with one or two. So that's what happened and I don't feel comfortable on a festival stage because I don't want to have be putting on a show for the sake of it and I don't want to be playing music people want just to keep high or whatever, I want to play the music I want to play and I don't think a festival is the right environment because everyone's following the rules of the festival - I tried a few times, but I haven't found the one where I'm comfortable and where it makes sense. Every time I went there, I felt like I was making good money but no one was very happy - for me it's really important to please my audience, that's where I get my kicks. I won't play any music to make people happy, I will try to play the best music possible in my opinion I won't compromise the music to make people dance because in certain situations, like festivals, you have to do that. I like smaller places where you can have a decent sound system, and where people can enjoy the music as opposed to watching a guy play music.

So we're not going to see you waving your hands in the air in front of 100,000 people?I might wave one arm occasionally... every two hours, but I need the other one anyway! I understand the need for people to see something but promoters who put on DJs instead of bands actually doing things, that's a very debatable thing for me. Defected pres Dimitri From Paris Back in The House - CD1 A Night At The Horse  Groom, London (Live) by Defected RecordsDimitri From Paris Back In The House is out on August 28, for more information go HERE. For more information on the man himself, visit his website HERE.