Follow @SharonFGrigsby

What a great thing that the City Plan Commission voted no on the Trinity East gas-drilling requests yesterday.Colleague Mike Hashimoto disagrees and yesterday offered a criticism of the newspaper's Wednesday editorial, which recommended a "no" vote. As the editor of our Wednesday editorial, I want to respond to Mike's concerns. In short, we disagree with Mike about lawsuit fears being the central issue at this point in the process.While a consulting firm for Trinity East at one point referenced possible litigation if Trinity East doesn't get its way, Trinity East has never threatened to sue. Here are a few possible reasons why:- Mike's assumption that Trinity East can win a lawsuit just because it hasn't "done anything wrong" is incorrect. The issue at stake is rooted in contract law and whether the parties involved fulfilled their obligations. The more Jim Mitchell  (who wrote the editorial) and I investigated, the more we learned:A June 2011 document between Trinity East and the city of Dallas is critical here. At that point, Trinity East was seeking an extension of its leasing rights. The city smartly underscored in the amendment the risk associated with Trinity East obtaining the rights to the parkland/floodplain — a risk that has been paramount in the deal from its inception. Here's the exact language:Article 7) Section 21 (c) of each Lease is amended to include the following language at the end of the Section:"Lessee understands that a Specific Use Permit is required before the Land can be used for oil and gas drilling and that a decision on an application for a Specific Use Permit is a police power that cannot be contracted away.Lessee further understands that a gas well permit pursuant to Dallas Development Code Article XII is required to conduct gas drilling and production.Lessee understands that the proposed drill sites are on park land and that before the Land may be used for oil and gas drilling, and as required by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Code, Sections 26.001 through 26.004, the city council must authorize the oil and gas drilling use on park land. This authorization is a police power that cannot be contracted away.Lessee understands that the proposed drill sites are within the flood plain and that oil and gas drilling is not a permitted use within the flood plain.Lessee further understands that before the Land may be used for oil and gas drilling, a decision by the city council must be made to amend the Dallas Development Code to allow the use within the flood plain, or Lessee must obtain a fill permit pursuant to Dallas Development Code Section SIA-S.10S."Trinity East signed this amendment, knowing it wouldn't necessarily win the required SUPs. In other words, this contract had contingencies and Trinity East might have to find a Drilling Plan B.Drilling Plan B would be a possible "creative solution:" Trinity East can seek to secure private land outside the parkland/floodplain and conduct the much-used horizontal drilling to get access to its mineral rights in the floodplain.Bottom line: Denying the parkland/floodplain permits does not deprive Trinity East of the contractual obligations the city is legally bound to. Our newspaper was not irresponsible in its editorial. What would be irresponsible would be for the city to ignore its own policy (no drilling in parkland/floodplain) and compound the mistakes made thus far in this "train wreck of policy and process" by simply caving in.Lastly, even if Trinity East decides to secure private land and do horizontal drilling to reach its mineral rights, there still remains the issue of the gas processing plant, which was the basis for the third "no" vote. We oppose that plant on the basis of unanswered environmental questions.I've not read every document in the Trinity East saga, but I've read a lot of them. As best I can tell, the processing plant was never specified in initial requests. Keep in mind that the original documents involved proposed sites, with little detail around what would be done on the sitesIs the city destined to lose a lawsuit on this one? A strong argument exists that because the processing plant was not listed in the documents, contractual rights in a "no" vote would not be breached — because Trinity East didn't ask for that specific right to begin with.Should our Wednesday editorial have jumped ahead to all the reasons we think this is "not a risky gamble that could cost Dallas taxpayers"? If we had unlimited space, yes. We devoted our space to the issues that seemed most immediate. But if the time does come that Trinity East sues, I believe this blog post offers a roadmap to what our editorial, in response, would say.I'm proud of our editorial and our newspaper's stand on behalf of residents' health and quality of life.