A few months ago I received a message via Soundcloud from a Swiss man calling himself Zustra. He'd read my blog and thought I'd be interested in checking out his music - being the cynic I am, I didn't bother to listen to it initially, thinking it would probably not be something I'd like. But eventually I did take time to listen to it and it turned out that Zustra's stuff was pretty good. With this in mind, I decided to interview Zustra to find out what it's like for a music producer who is unknown and trying to get their music heard and signed.Which city are you from and how is the scene?I'm from Lax. Not the airport of Los Angeles, but a village deep in the Swiss Alps with a population of 300. So you can imagine what kind  of a scene we have.How did you get into house music?I got into electronic music quite late, when I was around 18, because  there is almost no scene where I grew up. There was one club  called Bamboo where they played minimal and techno back in 2008. The  moment when I really fell in love with the sound was when I went to  Lausanne with a friend to hear Jeff Mills. He played a four-hour set on  three decks and did live jams on his 909. It was just magical to see  such passion and energy.How did you make the transition from listening to music to DJing and producing?I bought my first turntables in early 2009 along with Serato and later I  switched to Traktor. Recently though my vinyl collection has been growing and I  look forward to playing my first vinyl-only set. Playing only with vinyl  is a totally different story in a good way! Half a year after I bought those turntables I started  producing with Ableton. I was always curious as to how the sounds in house and techno had been  crafted and I had lots of ideas about how to alter the tracks that I was  playing. At the beginning it was very hard to understand the process of  making music because there is so much more to it than "just" DJing. You  have to understand how a track is built, which sounds to use, basic  sound synthesis and design, followed by a lot of practicing and jamming.  Afterwards arranging all the parts to get some excitement and then  there's the technical side to it where you have to mix all the parts  together.