Monika Kruse is widely-regarded as a woman who is at the top of her game. As a DJ and producer, she is known around the globe for playing techno - however, like most people, her musical background and tastes come from a variety of sources. This is reflected in her new album, Traces, which is takes a different tact to her usual productions. It's a great collection of music, and is full of emotion due to her personal circumstances while the album was being made. I spoke to Monika all about the new LP, her dream collaboration with house legend Robert Owens and lots more.So, Monika, your album is out, how are you feeling?I'm pretty nervous and excited, wondering if people are going to like it because it's a little bit different to what people might have expected. Quite a challenge...

I guess people form a perception of how you are as an artist. Totally, they expect one thing and put you in a corner, sometimes it's really hard to show them 'Hey, I can be different as well and there's a part of me which you don't know yet', but I want to introduce this part of me...You've called it Traces because it contains traces of everything that's made you who you are, musically?Yeah, growing up the main music I was listening to as a child was funk and soul, my first DJ sets were with funk, soul, deep house and vocal house and a few years later I began to play the harder techno. I had a variety of musical styles in my beginnings, so with Traces I tried to combine many styles that have been important for me.Having already made a few albums you must be at a stage where you feel you can show your many different sides, rather than just the one people know. Yeah, especially as the older you get you think about what is more important for 'me' and what you want to express. Life is always up and down, just like music - sometimes you like to listen to slower stuff and sometimes you like to listen to harder stuff - so I think it's important to stay true to yourself and not do what the people want you to do otherwise you go crazy. I mean, of course when I play as a DJ, if I've been booked to play peak time I'm not going to play ambient, you need to have a connection with the people and not piss them off, but at the same time you should do what your heart feels. That's the best thing, finding a combination of those things.In your early days you were a big Robert Owens fan, and now he's on your album.Yes, I was a super big fan. Since I started DJing he was one of my idols and there were a lot of tracks [he made] that touched me deeply and almost made me cry, so I was like "Ok, now I'm doing an album and it would be a dream come true if I could meet this guy or he could do something for my album". I behaved like a little fan [laughs] and I was writing to him saying "Hey, do you want to sing on the album?" and he was into it, so the collaboration started. Then we finally met, (because we made the track via the internet), because he was singing at Tresor, and I went up and said "Hello!". It was a fun collaboration and even better when we met because you never what someone could be like, you know their music but you never know what they're like, then you meet the person and sometimes you get really disappointed, but with him... he was truly like his songs, very deep, just a wonderful person.How long did it take you to put the album together?Actually it took me about one year because, in the middle of the year my mum died so I needed a long break from everything. Then I came back and went to the studio in autumn last year.That must have had quite an effect on your approach to the album.Yeah for sure, there's one very deep track, the last track M.U.M (or Miss U Mum). It expresses my sadness. In the beginning it's dark and then, with the melody, the happiness is coming out and it's like ,"Hey, she's in heaven now and she's better than she was before"... because she was very sick. I think that's why the album is so quiet, because my feelings in this past year have been more sensitive than just 'Dance, dance, dance' - I mean, also dancing is very important because I love to dance. But, that's why there are some quieter tracks on there as well.Going back to your beginnings, who were you really into in those early days?I was, and still am, a big Prince fan. Marvin Gaye... there's so many, even the old hip hop - Digital Underground, De La Soul, A Tribe Called Quest, EPMD. I don't really like the new hip hop, but I like the old stuff - there's such a variety, if I was to send you a list I'd probably still miss some people off! I'm still listening to this kind of stuff, it makes me so happy singing along to all the words and dancing  around!What do you think it is about Prince and his music that is so timeless and transcends generations?That's a good question, I can't speak for the young people who like him, but I grew up with him - his first album came out and from that moment he impressed me. All the bands he was featuring, and the singers he was writing tracks for, it was amazing what he did for the music industry. For example, Sheila E, the drummer and (later on) singer, she was one of my idols and she played a big part in me becoming a DJ. I saw her do something outstanding as a girl, I'd never seen a female drummer before and she was there doing such a fucking good job. I saw her in concert and I was blown away, she was doing her thing right and she looked like she can kick some other drummers' asses, so I thought, "Hey, maybe I can become a DJ". I didn't know any female DJs at the time and I didn't know if I could do it, but I thought I could at least try and that's what Prince always said to his musicians, "You should try, just don't give up before. Just try to play the guitar or the drums and then decide you can't do it".Would you say you've modelled yourself on Sheila E in some respect?Yeah, she was a role model, still is. I saw her three years ago, she was on tour with Prince in Berlin - I was in the front row, of course! I saw her jamming and having fun, I even saw her crying because she was so touched by the crowd - it was like, "Yeah cool, you're over 50 now and... you're so fucking cool" [laughs]. I felt a real connection to her.

What motivates you to carry on making music and playing around the world?It's even more fun now, there's more pressure it's true - which sometimes sucks. But it's great to travel around, and I've just realised how lucky I am to be able to go to all these countries, and different cultures and meet people who tell me their stories. It never gets boring, sometimes you get lonely, but on the other hand when you have a great gig there's nothing better in the world, you go home with a smile on your face and happy feelings, which it's hard to get from anywhere else. I'm very happy I can do this.Do you get much time to explore cities away from your work as a DJ?It depends, because I'm running a label I can't always be on tour, but for some cities or countries I take my time. For example when I go to Peru, I want to see Macchu Picchu and take some time off in Lima and see some other parts of Peru. I did the same the first time I went to Chile, I went to see the Atacama Desert for one week, so with some places in the world I take my time out but I can't do that every week.Traces by Monika Kruse is out now, pick it up HERE and for more information on the lady herself visit her website HERE. 