Another artist that caught my attention in Miami this year was Tone Of Arc (AKA Derrick Boyd). Rather than just playing records, he performed live with a gleaming, fifties-style, chrome microphone and a guitar. It was refreshing to see such a show, so I made a mental note to track him down on my return to the UK and, when I did, I found footage of his breakthrough performance at the BPM Festival in Mexico earlier this year.How long have you been making music and when did it all start to fall into place for you? I picked up the guitar at 13, when I was mostly looping layers of guitar and vocal with a delay pedal. At 16 I was in a garage band. At 17-20 I began making beats with a 4-track recorder. Little did I know I was making some version of house music in real time with pots and pans. Then, after that, producing with computers became inevitable even though I swore never to touch one. I hated computers. Still do. At 22-23 I began spinning records when I moved to San Francisco but still had a stigmata against DJs and their attitudes being a musician. My goals were always focused on producing. I can't stop and never will.Was there a particular track that provided a 'Eureka!' moment, or has it been a gradual process to find your way?It took forever to find my 'Eureka!' moment. Up until I met Jonny White I was writing music that was all over the place and had lack of focus or bad mixing. My studio was at the foot of my bed, or in the closet, until then. I didn't even enjoy playing my music out because it didn't fit well with anything I played... so I thought. Maybe due to lack of confidence, it seemed like my friends didn't like my music at all. When I made "Shaking The Sky" I knew I had done what I always longed to do but I'm finding that [initial lack of confidence] was all in my head and I have always been hitting the mark by being out of the norm.

What's your musical background, are you trained?110 % self taught. 360 degrees don't know what I'm doing. I only channel this stuff. I don't own it. No thought in the process and all improv.
No samples, no excuses, guided by confidence, commitment and no hesitation mixed with alien ideals for global accession.Your performance at BPM seemed to leave an impression on everyone who witnessed it... how long did it take you to get your live show together and had you planned to blow everyone away in Mexico? BPM in Mexico to me was the moment I threw my spear. I knew it would mark the beginning of a serious career. It took me a year and a half to make that live set and all the tunes involved. Months of practise and a lifetime of knowledge finally payed off. I was in my comfort zone and doing what I love the most. I try not to think about blowing anyone's mind. I just try to close my eyes and focus on the feeling inside to channel the message of love, joy, and sex.How does it feel to have had so much positive feedback?I'm the happiest person alive when I hear people talk about what I'm doing. I love seeing friends buy and play guitars and basses, keys and pick up microphones in efforts to inspire those around us. Bringing that live element into house and dance music is a huge step forward. Not that it hasn't been done before but rather letting the talents shine out while putting everything on the line in a DJ/club environment. One mess up can kill a buzz. People are sensitive. I know I am.You perform and record with your girlfriend Zoe Presnick, how did you hook up? We met at Dolores Park, San Francisco on January 18th 2009. I knew I was going to meet a mother that day. I like moms because they have the responsibility of taking care of another's life. Moms seem more grounded and less 'loosy Goosey'. It's not that not being a mom means you are airy and irresponsible, it's just how I was feeling at that time. We haven't left each others' side since. It's was just by cosmic luck she bloomed to be an amazing singer. So I pulled her up a chair in the studio and asked her to follow her dreams with me. Tone Of Arc - Shaking The Sky by No.19 Music

What's behind the name change from Dead Seal to Tone Of Arc?I was finally happy with my accomplishments as Dead Seal and Jonny White suggested a name change to match the full length album he asked me to make for No.19. Of course I thought it was a good idea because a lot of people didn't get what "Dead Seal" meant. It stands for my past, present and future lives. It's a symbol I made when I was seven years old when I rewrote the English alphabet in to my own cryptic hieroglyphs. How could anyone understand that when all they picture is a bloody carcass bludgeoned to death. It's a flaw in the English language giving three different things the same name. A name change that carried my message proper was needed. So I came up with "Tone Of Arc" in short meaning the Sound Of The Laws Of Creation. The angelic vibrations holding all things in the universe together. [Insert space whistle].So now you're getting into the swing of things, what can we expect from the album?Expect the unexpected from Tone of Arc always. The album had to be separated into two parts - Dance and Expressionism.Do you have any plans to expand your operation and maybe work with a band/collaborate with other musicians on bigger projects?I think I could be better if I was working with really talented musicians. That being said I want to grow in every way possible and pull a talented group together to create the unknown. I have a very huge vision to fulfill. It's scary but it will happen. Tone Of Arc - No Pushers by No.19 MusicWhich piece of music could you happily listen to 24/7, 365 for the rest of your life?Didn't the Nazis try doing that to break the mind? That's like asking if I want to go to eaven and sit next to a guy with a white beard on a throne, floating on clouds for eternity. I'd go insane. Music has a time and a place and it is a very delicate force that should always be respected.Why do you think there's such a shortage of live 'house-based' acts? Do you hope to inspire more people to take up the mantle?It takes certain abilities and levels of confidence to bring live instruments or vocals into a DJ atmosphere. DJs and producers don't have to be musicians to make music these days. So of course there is a shortage. People gave up their drums and guitars and clarinets for turntables a long time ago. I never stopped swinging my axe. I love watching my friends pick up instruments and put themselves out there and challenge themselves away from just being producers and DJs. Pillowtalk are a perfect example of this and look how good they are doing. I feel like a proud poppa. I'm seeing many others buy guitars and basses and sing more than ever. It's a dream come true.Any advice for someone hoping to follow in your footsteps?Don't sell your self short for fame. Never grovel. Stay true to yourself by being confident, committed and have no hesitation. It's my motto. Don't talk shit about people because they have something to teach you about yourself. Unless of course they rape the earth and enslave the weak, uneducated and the poor. Smell the flowers always. Everything will come naturally. Trust in yourself to remember that you always know what to do.For more information on Tone Of Arc, go to his Facebook page HERE and his Soundcloud page HERE. 