A little while back I received an EP from No.19 Records, their Spring Sampler - a collection of tracks from a various different musicians. I wasn't overly impressed to begin with (although I love it now) but there was one track that really stood out. It was called Falling From Grace, by Tony Smart and Terence Kissner, and it completely blew me away. Deep, sullen and rolling - I had it on repeat for ages. I recently decided to get in touch with one of the guys who made it, Tony, and we had a really interesting chat about his on/off relationship with music, his dad's influence and his connection with a famous UK DJ. He also recorded a brilliant exclusive mix.Firstly, how long have you been making music? I have been tinkering with music since the late eighties but wrote my first track in 1991. My father was my biggest influence. He was born in Jamaica but opened my eyes to music in general, the broad spectrum, as he loved it all without boundaries or genre.I started getting into it as, not only did I share my fathers passion, but he really pushed me through it. He bought synth after synth in the eighties until we had a full recording studio with some of the most sought after equipment in the world. However, I was a troubled teen and didn't take advantage of this at all, it was fun to have friends over and bang a beat out on a tr-909 but it really had no meaning to me. It always seemed too far a way and too distant to ever pursue.What would you say is your favourite piece of kit in that studio?Oddly enough, I had the most fun jamming on a bass guitar of anything else that landed in that studio.When did you start to take it a bit more seriously?I only started sending demos out in the late nineties, when I was picked up by a label and then dropped before ever seeing a release. This crushed me, some would push harder... I quit and stopped writing entirely. I got back into it for a brief period around 2003 only to quit again. I started back up two years ago but never sent any music out from fear of further rejection. I was found on Soundcloud by Robin Chappell of Plastik Philosophy two years ago.I guess having an open-minded father meant you had an eclectic taste growing up then?Yeah, my musical tastes were all over the map. From Pink Floyd to Gary Numan to Motown I loved it all as a child. The New Wave storm of the late seventies early eighties gripped me, Men Without Hats, Human League, New Order, Bauhaus, Depeche Mode, Erasure, Joy Division, The Smiths... it all made sense and then along came house music. This changed the game for me in 1987 and I was sold. From that point on I had the horse blinders on!So did your father make music too? And what does he think of what you're doing now?I do believe my father would have loved to have been able to make music, but the creative part always escaped him. He did tour Jamaica playin bass in a band. I unfortunately forget the name of the band but he did play with some greats (Jackie Mitou) and claimed to be the second biggest touring band in Jamaica at time, The Wailers being number one. He doesn't understand a lot of the music I am doing and have been doing. To him it is far too repetitive and he doesn't like the loud four-to-the-floor bang bangs.You're from Kitchener (near Toronto, Canada), what's the music scene like there?Kitchener only over the past maybe 15 years has been building a bit of a scene. My influences in electronic music came from living within close proximity to Toronto. I was within an hour's drive and could pick up FM signals without any troubles. I did go to "kiddie" clubs from an early age and shook my ass to Dead or Alive - Spin Me Around at 13 and such as I started getting out at an early age. I was an annoying 7 year old kid going to roller skate jams where all the teenagers of the time were. Tony Smart  Terence Kissner - Falling From Grace [No.19 Music] by terencekissnerI have to ask, how did Falling From Grace come about?Falling from Grace happened as my close friend of many years, Terence Kissner, and I reunited. We got talking and thought it would be great to write a song together. When we first got together I hadn't really listened to anything deep house-wise. He opened my eyes! The passion, the feelings being evoked - it wasn't just about clubs, it was about emotion, and soulful representation through synths. With that track, the bassline came first, once the "There's only one God" sample was found we evolved it with the 12-hour deadline given to us by No.19 after they heard a clip. It was a stressful 14 hours as we blew the deadline over.Did you just send a demo to the guys at No.19?With No.19, oddly enough it seemed quite simple. Terence had a strong feeling about the track and knowing (label owner) Jonny White, he sent it to him. Thankfully Jonny trusted Terence's  judgement and gave the track a listen. The track was in an unfinished state with only a few minutes to preview where it went, within an hour of it being sent out we were told we had 12 hours to finish it if we would like to be on the No.19 Spring Sampler. It seemed impossible but had to be done.You're related to Dave Angel, how did you end up finding out about your connection with him?I found out about my connection with Dave through his grandmother (my fathers' sister), who came to visit Canada while I was in my early twenties. Once she found out I was in love with electronic music she told me all about my cousin. After a few messages back and forth between family members, we were talking and he asked to hear some of my music, yeah right, a legend wants to hear my tinkerings! I obliged and sent a few things through and sat on the internet with him as he reviewed some of my works.What did he say?He really enjoyed the tracks that I sent him. One in particular that caught his attention was Body Noise, which I wrote in conjunction with The Goons. I really hope to meet him one day soon and the feeling was definitely mutual. Tony Smart - Changes by Tony SmartWhere's good to go and party in Toronto?For quality of sound and environment I would heavily recommend The Purple Room in Waterloo.In between having an on/off relationship with making music, what have you been doing in life?I used to be a bricklayer, a restoration one. I had a knack for it. I loved being at heights and took joy and pride in my work. I have a few children, three in fact. My son Joel is a teen and my daughters Abigail and Isabella are much younger being seven and five years old. All of them full of personality.Who have you been listening to recently (within house or otherwise) who's really exciting/motivating you?I have a diverse range of stuff that I listen to and enjoy. I like Inland Knights a lot and find their gritty style just amazing, with them I buy first and listen later! The track that really turned me over to the deep side though was Daniel Bortz - Can't Sleep At Night. Since then the biggest tracks that have stuck on me are: Alex Arnout - One (More) and Beep Dee - Quiss Day (Rockerr Remix) to mention a couple. My biggest inspiration though comes from my deep love of late eighties chicago and acid house.Download Tony's excellent mix below or click HERE. Tony Smart - Deep  Dark Mix For The Independent by Marcus_BarnesFor more information on Tony Smart visit his Soundcloud page HERE and No.19's excellent Spring Sampler is available from Beatport HERE. 