Bristol is without a doubt one of the country's most fertile cities in terms of electronic music. Exports such as Massive Attack, Portishead and Roni Size are a testament to Bristol's ability to produce musical talents who can really make an impact on the world stage. Today the city continues to sprout new talent and exciting new acts, one of those being Waifs  Strays (Amos Nelson and Rich Beanland). Last year their thunderous house track 'Yeah Yeah' was ubiquitous, so much so that I named it as one of my top tracks of 2011 and they've carried on the momentum created by their success last year into 2012 with lots of exciting projects on the agenda and a hectic touring schedule.Electronic music is really blowing up Stateside (and around the world), both commercially and underground. What's your opinion on this explosion? Amos: Ultimately it can only be a good thing, but the mainstream and the underground will always be separate. I don't think you can compare what Swedish House Mafia and Guetta do with what someone like Crosstown Rebels or another large underground act, and certainly not to some of the smaller labels and artists. But if it acts as a springboard for people to search out and embrace music that we love, that can only be a good thing.From the underground point of view, there's a real dislike of people like Guetta and Skrillex etc... but surely their success benefits everyone in a way?Rich: As Amos said, if it introduces people to dance music that wouldn't normally have listened to it, sure. But also I think their music can paint dance music in a bad light as well. It's a two-way street. I think there may be a lot of people out there that listen to some of the very commercial sounds of Guetta or Swedish House Mafia and assume that its underground music (SHM even say they are the 'real underground' for f*** sake!). Hopefully people understand that acts like those are not representative of our scene at all.As someone who has a background in dubstep Rich, do you consider what Skrillex does to even be 'dubstep'? In my opinion Dubstep is electronic music with a dub-influence...Rich: Simply, no. "Dub" - "Step", as you say, is garage and dub-influenced sub-bass driven music which originally came out of London. It is minimal, subtle, and both deep and has attitude. I have no problem with what Skrillex does, each to their own, but Skrillex is about as much dubstep as Justice are deep house. It's a real shame in a way that he has labeled himself/been labeled as a dubstep artist. It has no doubt turned off huge swathes of people from a genre which has so much more to offer and is one of the most technically and artistically interesting genres around. Skrillex is basically dirty modern electro pop trance, and unfortunately this is now what many people will think dubstep is as well. If you are reading this and this is you then please stop what you are doing and YouTube the following artists immediately: Pinch, Shackleton, Burial, Digital Mystikz, Boxcutter, Appleblim, Peverelist, Kode 9, Benga, Scuba, El B... for a start!Why do you think house/electronic music has made such a massive comeback in recent times? Amos: I think these things go in waves, and the kids will get into something else at somepoint and the cycle will continue. But I think electronic music is here to stay now, and will have its own cycles as well. It's nice to see house having a big scene again after so much minimal and techno for a few years, as that is ultimately where my first love lies...In the UK it's all happening too. How's the Bristol scene at the moment?Rich:The Bristol scene is amazing. In fact never been better. It really seems that everyone has pulled their fingers out and upped their games. With clubs like Motion putting on some of the best line ups you can imagine, parties like Alfresco Disco doing some amazing events and of course a whole host of great music coming through, its such an exciting city to be in. We wouldn't want to be anywhere else right now.Amos, you've been involved with promoting and DJing there for quite some time, what changes have you seen over the years?Amos: I think the main change has been the move from big lavish events to smaller ones. When I was first promoting, the events we were putting on were huge - 2000 people every week, massive production, lasers, dancers, performers etc. Look at all the places like Cream, God's Kitchen, Gatecrasher etc... You don't really get that kind of clubbing any more, it's kind of a shame I think in some ways. The other main change was the late license. It used to be for ages that clubs finished at 4am, now everywhere finishes later, and you have the whole after party scene, that was very small before. I like the late-night clubbing, 4am was never late enough!What are your top 5 club/party recommendations for a newcomer to Bristol?Amos: In no particular order:In:Motion - mega line-ups in a crazy skate warehouse.
Alfresco Disco - amazing open air parties.
Pipe  Slippers - great pub with a great atmosphere.
The Bank - another great little pub/club in stokes croft.
Love Saves The Day - Bristol one-day open air festival in the centre of town on the Jubilee weekend. It's going to be a mad one!The last year or so has been great for Waifs  Strays, what effect has that had on your lives in general? 
Rich: Totally and utterly changed them, for the better... and busier! It's been an amazing journey so far, and we have been to some great parties, both in the UK and abroad. But I think we have really learned a lot too, both in terms of what our sound is, production techniques and general industry experience. Hopefully this is just the start, as we feel like we are just getting rolling.Can you describe the feeling you get when you know a track you've made is being played (and sending people crazy) all over the world..?Amos: Its very, very surreal. For me the most crazy moment was when Pete Tong announced that 'Yeah Yeah' was the Essential New Tune. I grew up listening to that show, and to then to hear those famous words with our tune on the end, well every hair on the back of my head stood up, and they still do when I listen back to that show.Rich: This is the reason I started writing music in the first place. For me this is "what it's all about", dropping your new tune (or hearing someone else drop it) and getting a great response. There are different types of musical high for me, a studio high and a playing live high - the above is like a sublime combination of the two!What does the future hold for Waifs  Strays - what are you working on at the moment?Rich: Right now we are working on a load of productions for various labels, and getting EPs ready for later in the year. That and working on a remix for one of our favourite acts ever, but we cant speak about that right now!Amos you mentioned doing stuff with Eats Everything, have you made any progress in terms of that?A: Unfortunately, we are both really busy, especially him, so we keep delaying it. It will happen though, and soon. I'm really excited about working with him as we are old friends and he is also one of my favourite producers right now, so pretty much a perfect situation for me!What's your ultimate dream/ambition music-wise?Amos: Sounds corny, but just to make music people like. We are not really looking for fame or loads of money, although it would be nice!Rich: Full live set world tour, artist album, and just to keep making music for as long as possible

Finally, bit of a cliched question but what are the top 5 records in your 'box' (hard drive) at the moment?Amos: in no particular order:Dog Days - Mia [Gruuv]Burnski  M A N I K - You Know What It's Like [Real Tone]J Cub - Warning [Foot  Mouth]The White Lamp - It's You (Eats Everything and Christophe Remix) [Futureboogie]Jamie Funk - Incessant Sub [1Trax]Rich: The above are all massive, plus check out the new Mosca EP on Hypercolour when you can, out in May I believe. Just been sent the promo and it's a bit special.For more information on Waifs  Strays go to the Facebook page HERE or their Soundcloud page HERE. 