The Preston and Northwest Highway area has been abuzz repeatedly this past year over several development plans that residential neighbors thought were terrible ideas. Now Mark Cuban is part of the debate in this part of town, which he also calls home. DMNer Tom Benning has the story here.Like Tom, I emailed back and forth with Cuban earlier this week in order to learn more about what what his plans are. But my interest was hinged to how those plans for the property buy-up near Northwest Highway might fit in with the last development project I recall — Wonderview back in 2010.In retrospect, the "Bridging the Gap" team got more excited than perhaps was warranted when Cuban's east Oak Cliff plan was announced.  Here's the hopeful editorial we wrote at the time. More recently, colleague Jim Mitchell assessed why "nothing's happening at Wonderview" in this blog post.So when I heard that Cuban was considering some type of office project in the Preston Hollow area, I wondered whether he had given up on his southern Dallas plan. His response:It is unfortunate that a former consultant got everyone excited at the time [of the Wonderview announcement]. There was a reason why you never heard from me. We had made no decisions. We have discussed a lot of different things with a lot of different people, but haven't made any decisions.My hope is to do something with the property. That is why I bought it. But as with any and all of my real estate holdings, it's a marathon, not a sprint. I'm not going to do anything till I think it's the right thing to do.As Tom notes in today's post, there are somewhat vague reports out there that "Cuban's representatives have floated the idea of a denser development, and a compact group of properties near Preston Center would seem to fit that bill. But no plans have been presented in writing, and Cuban hasn't sought any zoning changes."One thing is clear — Cuban has folks stirred up in both his former neighborhood — and his current one, just west of the Tollway. And not in a good way.The DMN editorial board, meanwhile, will keep fingers crossed that the real estate marathon that Cuban referenced in regard to his land holdings pays off for southern Dallas, and his Wonderview project is able to cross the finish line before a Cuban development sprouts in the already bustling Preston and Northwest area. He's likely to get a far more welcoming reception when he breaks ground in southern Dallas than he would in Preston Hollow.
