Since moving into my full-time writing gig, I've been prolific on the tragedy of mowing down historic old buildings in the core of Dallas. You can catch up to my previous opinions on this topic right here.For those of you who care where the downtown demolition derby stands — and I hope that means everyone — here's the status report on efforts to try to prevent more buildings from suffering the fate of the four on Main and Elm that vanished last month, compliments of Joule hotel retail expansion: Preservation Dallas and City Hall staff continue to compile that list of buildings that lack historic preservation status. They are supposed to present their findings to City Council any day now. Then it's up to council members to find some answers. Trust me, I'll be following that story.But today I want to highlight an example of getting it right when it comes to revitalization/redevelopment that, at the same time, preserves our city's past. On the same weekend that Klyde Warren Park is celebrating turning two with all sorts of activities, history is being made — and saved — on the south end of downtown, as the Encore Park project is kicking off its dedication weekend.The centerpiece of this project (these photos describe it better than I can) is the long-neglected 508 Park building, which shows what can happen when preservation and new urban ideas are braided together. Back in 2013, our editorial page described the significance of that building like so:When vinyl was king, 508 Park Ave. in downtown Dallas was one of the throne rooms of music. Companies such as Warner Bros., the American Record Corp., Brunswick Radio and Decca America were tenants. Bob Wills and his Texas Playboys recorded there, and in June 1937, blues pioneer Robert Johnson held one of two Texas recording sessions at the building. When Eric Clapton did a tribute album to Johnson in 2004, he taped some of the songs at 508 Park.As Dallas writer and critic Thor Christensen explained in his DMN article earlier this week, the three-story art deco building's 23,000 square feet have been gutted and construction has begun to repurpose the interior. It will serve as a Museum of Street Culture, which will feature a visual art program for homeless people to develop their art and a recording studio that can be used by anyone, from professional musicians to students to the homeless. All of this under the auspices of The Stewpot of First Presbyterian Church.Encore Park has big expectations — It's trying to combine preservation, commerce, art and social justice issues. That's an ambitious mission, and only time will tell how many of its admirable goals will be met.Today let's simply celebrate the work that has been done so far — and the music to come out of the project this weekend.Mike Hashimoto penned a great line about Dallas' attitude about preservation in this July editorial:Dallas has a well-deserved reputation, cultivated over the decades, of tearing down what it no longer needs to make room for something new and shiny. Preservation always seemed like a good idea for the next thing.Thank you, First Presbyterian and partners, for not taking that easier "shiny and new" path and instead preserving a grand piece of our city.