I was heartened by the message Mayor Mike Rawlings delivered yesterday during what could have been no more than a media event around a GrowSouth milestone. The event itself was the knocking down of the 250th dilapidated structure in the southern half of the city -  bulldozing one of those vacant, decaying houses that invites drug users and other crime and pulls down the neighborhood around it.While knocking these buildings down is important, just as important is Rawlings' accompanying challenge — one he's been making consistently — for City Hall to plot a course to bring development and life to these vacant lots across southern Dallas. He says he expects to have a plan in hand this spring.Getting rid of the abandoned, burned-out, falling-down structures that pockmark southern Dallas has been part of the goal behind our own 10 Drops in the Bucket. But like the mayor, we've noted that's just the first step to what can be a better quality of life for neighborhoods. Our editorial team also feels strongly that this is not work to be done with federal dollars but with private developers who see opportunities there.The long-festering blight is one spoke in the cycle of poverty wheel that the DMN editorial staff has been focusing on since fall 2007. I learn more with each year — including realizing how much I don't know.I do believe this: A good education — and getting each child to "the starting line" (that first day of kindergarten) with an equal shot at success (as opposed to so many lagging light years behind more-advantaged peers) — is the single most important way to break that cycle of poverty. That's one of the points the mayor made clear last week in an interview on the Wilonsky-Moore "Intentional Grounding" show.But back to yesterday's event ... DMN reporter Scott Goldstein also asked the mayor for an update on where things stand with the HUD investigation of what seem to be troubling city practices. We editorialized on the accusations just after the news broke; this weekend we will have have an interview in our Points section with lawyer Mike Daniel, who has fought previous racial-segregation battles in court.Here's the latest on the city's response to HUD, from Scott's blog post:Rawlings said he spoke last week with Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan. Despite the city's disagreement with HUD on some of the findings, Rawlings said the goal is to do what the agency requires and come into compliance."We've got to get this behind us and that's what he and I spoke about," Rawlings said.The mayor plans to visit with Donovan or one of his aides while he is in Washington for a conference in January. The city is also still working on a formal written response to be sent to HUD in the coming weeks.For my part, I can't wait to get former DMN city hall reporter Rudy Bush on board (he joins our department Feb. 3) and Tod Robberson back from his Texan of the Year assignment so we can redouble our efforts on all things "Bridging Dallas' North-South Gap," including how many of those HUD accusations are true.

Follow @SharonFGrigsby
