Too busy helping report out our editorial on the Uber hired-car rules fiasco — timed to publish as the City Council talks about it tomorrow — to blog at length. But here's an early look at where I expect our editorial will go:It's disturbing that city staff saw fit to add what seems to us as a significant policy change, aimed at Uber and other car-for-hire services, into the consent agenda last week. Bad enough that the proposal was put on the consent agenda, which allows items to pass without any discussion — and even more disconcerting that this item was a last-minute addendum. (Acting City Manager A.C. Gonzalez wasn't talking Monday; we'll try today for comment.)Good work by our own Robert Wilonsky for getting the news out quickly. And good for council members Scott Griggs and Philip Kingston for pulling the proposal from the consent agenda Monday. Mayor Rawlings is also saying the right thing, signaling that he wants the policy change sent to committee for a preliminary discussion. In addition to our questions about the policy changes themselves, of particular concern is that undercover vice officers were being used to cite Uber drivers.  Whether that's the best use of vice officers' time is questionable.We call for the city council to vote today (Wednesday) to send the policy change back to the transportation committee. There seems a way forward to balance Uber's mission with the cab industry — legitimate issues such as regular inspections and insurance need to be vetted, but the proposed change that city staff wanted to ram through does not seem the best approach.Uber, which offers residents a ride with a few taps of an app, has a fervent following among many younger residents of the city, and those supporters were quick to mobilize on social media when the story broke Saturday. They pledge to be on hand at Wednesday's council meeting. We're glad to see this demographic revved up about a local issue and hope that energy continues on other issues.Also, check out this editorial in today's Washington Post about its own Uber controversy. You'll notice some unsettling similarities.

Follow @SharonFGrigsby
