Early this year I made the bold claim on Twitter that George Saunders' Tenth of December is the best book of 2013 — and beyond. (No offense to Points Summer Book Club selection Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk — I was one of the early advocates of the Ben Fountain book, having read it in 2012.)Many books and months later, I stand by my Tenth of December praise.Over the weekend, I offered another of my (thankfully rare) over-the-top tweets: This one about a "just discovered" commencement speech that George Saunders gave this past June at Syracuse. (In the euphoria that I felt after reading it, I tweeted it as something like "this could change your life.")Monday I offered the premise of the Saunders speech up as an off-the-beaten-path editorial idea: "failures of kindness." Saunders' words are so much better than anything I could write to try to describe his point (which may be why I felt I failed pretty miserably to win immediate support for an editorial!) Here's part of his speech:Do all the other things, the ambitious things - travel, get rich, get famous, innovate, lead, fall in love, make and lose fortunes, swim naked in wild jungle rivers (after first having it tested for monkey poop) - but as you do, to the extent that you can, err in the direction of kindness.  Do those things that incline you toward the big questions, and avoid the things that would reduce you and make you trivial.  That luminous part of you that exists beyond personality - your soul, if you will - is as bright and shining as any that has ever been.  Bright as Shakespeare's, bright as Gandhi's, bright as Mother Theresa's.  Clear away everything that keeps you separate from this secret luminous place.  Believe it exists, come to know it better, nurture it, share its fruits tirelessly.And someday, in 80 years, when you're 100, and I'm 134, and we're both so kind and loving we're nearly unbearable, drop me a line, let me know how your life has been.  I hope you will say: It has been so wonderful.In case you missed the link to the full speech on my Twitter feed or missed Keven's followup that focused on the five best quotes from the speech, please take time to read the full text of the commencement address here.I'll cheerfully wear the "Pollyanna" mantle on this one: In a world, a blogosphere and a profession where most days it feels like everyone is just trying to out-criticize or out-name-call or outdo whomever they are engaged with, Saunders' commencement story about "Ellen" and her "blue cat's-eye glasses  that, at the time, only old ladies wore" struck a nerve with me. Again, Saunders' words:It's a little facile, maybe, and certainly hard to implement, but I'd say, as a goal in life, you could do worse than: Try to be kinder.
Follow @SharonFGrigsby
