We rail a lot, here and elsewhere, about failures in Dallas around preservation efforts. Today this space is reserved for a salute: Both to preservationist Virginia McAlester, who more than 40 years ago sparked the movement to save beautiful homes and commercial buildings in Dallas, and to City Hall for having the good sense to honor her today for her decades of work.Colleague Rudy Bush notes that she received a real key to the city this morning from Mayor Rawlings — not the bogus kind that then Mayor Pro Tem Dwaine Caraway handed Michael Vick some years back.McAlester's accomplishments are too many for one blog post, but here's a start:- She led the fight to save Swiss Avenue in the 1970s, which produced the city's first historical-protection ordinance.- She was one of the 11 founding members of Preservation Dallas, established in 1972 as the Historic Preservation League. Among its first preservation work was caring for the historic art deco buildings in Fair Park.- She chaired the Historic Dallas Fund, which raised the money to buy 23 dilapidated houses in Munger Place and served as a catalyst to bring that neighborhood back as well.- She's a  nationally recognized expert on residential architecture who, in 1984, published A Field Guide to American Houses, which she updated about a year ago.Among the best pieces about Ms. McAlester, her life in Dallas and her awesome legacy is this February piece by Thomas Korosec in the DMN.Like so many of our true female heroes in Dallas, Texas and beyond, Ms. McAlester hasn't made a lot of big headlines. She's never been about grabbing the spotlight. Looking through DMN clips, I found that more often than not she shows up as part of thoughtful teams doing important work.I've argued for years that one reason we haven't yet had a female Texan of the Year is because women so often lead in ways that don't create a big buzz or fit into a neat one-year time frame. Female problem solvers and team builders go about their work quietly as they make a big difference year after year.Ms. McAlester is a prime example of someone with those attributes. What a well-deserved honor!