Today I have moved on a stage in my recovery from breast cancer.  My mammogram of yesterday has been declared clear and, after two years of six-weekly then three-monthly checks, today I graduated to six-monthly ones. At one and the same time, I felt hugely relieved but also slightly lost. Six months seems a long time "on my own". I know perfectly well that, should I be worried, I can return to the hospital at any time - but, somehow, the comfort blanket has slipped.It was a similar experience at the end of my radiotherapy treatment. I was on a high, having finished the daily journeys to the hospital and had four days to prepare for my son's wedding. After that I began to sense that something was missing and then I realised what it was - the trip to the hospital. Crazy though it may seem, those three months, between diagnosis and the end of radiotherapy, had become a new way of life and I had to wean myself off the reassurance of seeing a medical specialist on a daily basis.I wonder if anyone else has had a similar reaction?I would be interested to hear, also, whether or not you celebrated coming through each stage of the process. Did you want a party? Did anyone offer to give you a party or was a surprise party sprung on you? If so, how did you feel about the latter?A fellow patient at my GP's surgery told me that he had been home from hospital for ten days, following surgery for cancer, and seen no medical person of any kind, so - despite the fact that he felt perfectly well - he had brought himself to the GP in order not to feel so medically isolated. I knew just what he meant. I suspect people feel cast adrift by the hospital and left to sail on unchartered waters, in an unfamiliar boat with no crew.Initially, you are swept up in the medical system with numerous medical personnel prodding, poking and testing. Then comes the surgery - only one night in the hospital for me - and home you go. Long gone are the health visitors and district nurses of my childhood who called in the day you were discharged, welcomed you home and took over from the nurses. Then the GP would arrive to "check you over". Not now. The medical profession can be brilliant at taking care of you in hospital - and with treatment after surgery - but something has gone terribly wrong with our medical support at home. Does the GP even know the date of your surgery?Where are all the health visitors and district nurses? We need them back. I received neither a visit nor a telephone call from either service when I came home from hospital - never mind a quick visit during the weeks of radiotherapy to make sure all was going according to plan. Yes, we can go back to the hospital - but, for most people, that will not be just around the corner. Yes, we can visit our GP - not too many will come out to you nowadays - but many people worry about "bothering" the doctor and would be happy to see a nurse at home. Yes, when the surgery is closed, we can call our GP's out of hours service, but at that crucial time we want a familiar face, in whom we have confidence, not someone who is cruising around in the car waiting for a call, has not had the opportunity to read your notes and might give you the wrong medication.Does this situation just occur in my area of London?  Do you have bursting teams of health visitors and district nurses where you live?  What is your experience? Please email and tell me - judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk