Ahead of the huge changes to the welfare system that take effect in April, the Guardian is hosting a series of weekly Twitter chats looking at how the reforms will touch people's lives.In previous weeks, Guardian readers on Twitter told us what the so-called "spare room tax" would mean for them and their families; how the switch from disability living allowance to personal independent payments would affect their day-to-day lives; and about the impact of changes in council tax benefits.On Wednesday 13 February from 2pm GMT, we'll be talking about the introduction of universal credit.Universal credit is the cornerstone of Iain Duncan Smith's welfare changes. The Department for Work and Pensions says it "will help claimants and their families to become more independent and will simplify the benefits system by bringing together a range of working-age benefits into a single streamlined payment". It will replace a range of other benefits, with the aim - according to Duncan Smith - of "making work pay". You can read more about it on the DWP website.From April, universal credit will be trialled in areas of north-west England. It is due to be rolled out nationally from October 2013.There have been concerns about the new system. Recently, a committee of advisers warned that an accompanying system of sanctions risked forcing claimants into crime. A pilot scheme saw the IT system failing 25% of the time. And a study last autumn claimed nearly half a million disabled people and their families could lose income under universal credit.Citizens Advice has produced a helpful guide to universal credit.Will you be affected by the changes? Do you feel the changes have been well explained and do you know what difference it will make to you?Join us on Twitter between 2pm and 3pm GMT on Wednesday 13 February to share your views and ask questions. Follow @Claire_Phipps or the #gdnchat hashtag to follow the conversation and feel free to leave a comment sharing your experience below.[Please note: this column is put together using Storify, which does not work on our mobile site and apps. If nothing loads below this paragraph, click here to go to Storify itself, or use the desktop version of the site.]