Fighting all Cancers Together (FACT) is a support organisation based in Gateshead. It was founded by Joanne Smith, who was diagnosed with breast cancer five years ago, when she was 34 years old - on her daughter's second birthday. Having received the diagnosis, Joanne went home and hosted her daughter's birthday tea party, proving just how brave and resolute are people when faced with such terrible news.Joanne's cancer was aggressive, HER2 positive, for which she had a double mastectomy, six months of chemotherapy and a year taking Herceptin; followed by a series of breast reconstructions. When she began to feel stronger she decided to create something positive out of such a devastating experience. She recognised how lucky she was to have had the support of family and friends and wanted to find a way to give the same level of care to those who were not in such a fortunate position. She realised also the impact her illness had on those around her.FACT works in the Tyne and Wear area on many levels and not just with those people affected by breast cancer. Lung cancer and skin cancer (particularly in children) play a large part in the charity's work. Through the partnerships they are building with local health professionals, statutory bodies, other charities, support groups and voluntary organisations, all sorts of information is on offer.  They give direct support and advice to cancer patients and their families; they visit schools to promote education about and awareness of all cancers; they run a wig exchange and workshops on general well-being, skin care, makeup classes (especially for those ladies who have lost hair and eyebrows through chemotherapy) and mastectomy wear. There are pamper evenings for ladies, with specialist cancer holistic therapists; evenings for people considering breast reconstruction - to which medical professionals are invited and questions are encouraged - and evenings where financial and benefit advice is on offer.Joanne speaks very highly of the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead, where she received marvellous personal care and - unusually for the NHS - gave her the results of her biopsy three hours after the test was administered. I wonder how it is that this hospital manages to achieve such a high standard and others lag way behind?Joanne is just one of many people in Britain K who, for all sorts of reasons, have felt the urge to start a support group. However, without publicity and referrals by GPs and hospitals, only a small percentage of those who need help and support ever find it. If you have a local support group you can recommend, please email me: judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.FACT can be found on 0191 442 0833 and www.fact-cancersupport.co.uk