10.15am: Good morning and welcome to the NHS live blog. It's another busy - and potentially fraught - day for the progress of the government's health reforms. This afternoon, the health and social care bill returns to the House of Lords, where peers will discuss two new amendments tabled by the health minister Earl Howe yesterday. You can read more about the details of the amendments here.And today also sees the second day of the information tribunal hearing the appeal by the Department of Health against a ruling by the information commissioner last year that it must publish its risk registers on the reforms. My colleague Hélène Mulholland was at yesterday's hearing and you can read her report here.We'll also be taking a look at what happened when the health secretary, Andrew Lansley, made a visit to the Royal Free hospital in north London yesterday (clue: it didn't go very well for him). Lansley is due to make a speech this afternoon to the Royal College of Physicians, which is holding a conference to mark the 50th anniversary of its landmark report on smoking and health. You can read health editor Sarah Boseley's article on the conference here.As always, comments below the line or tweets to me (@Claire_Phipps) are very welcome.10.38am: Andrew Lansley's visit to the Royal Free hospital yesterday doesn't seem to have gone quite to plan. (Thanks to m1ta and CordwainerJones for posting details last night on the blog.)As the Camden New Journal reports, Lansley was "chased through the corridors and wards" of the hospital, after he eluded around 40 protesters who had been waiting outside the main entrances for his arrival. "The hunt for Mr Lansley ended with the politician scampering down the corridors into the cardiac wards with police and executives warning protesters to leave," says the report.Tom Foot, the reporter who was there, tweeted:We're hoping to talk to Tom later. Meanwhile there is also some video footage of Lansley and the protesters; the voice we hear is apparently Dr Ron Singer. And yes, that is June Hautot - who labelled the health secretary's reforms "codswallop" when she confronted him outside Downing Street - in the throng.10.49am: We've had an amazing response so far to our project to document readers' experiences of the NHS, and what you think of the reforms. Please come and share your thoughts - whether those are for, against or not concerned by the changes in the health bill - and your views could form part of a special project we'll be launching soon. The form is here.11.02am: Tom Clark, one of the Guardian's leader writers, has been looking at the two government amendments to the health bill that will be discussed by peers this afternoon.11.12am: This piece on Comment is Free is well worth a read: it's by Graham Winyard, who was medical director of the NHS in England from 1993 to 1999 and a deputy chief medical officer. He was also a member of the Liberal Democrat health committee, but has now quit the party over the health and social care bill. He writes:11.56am: Tom Clark has turned his attention to the second government amendment tabled yesterday, which peers will scrutinise this afternoon. This one is about the role of Monitor, the independent regulator. Tom writes:12.06pm: Campaigners against the health bill have taken to Twitter once again, reports my colleague Hannah Waldram. Following campaigns on the tags #iamspartacus and #dropthebill, users started posting tributes to NHS workers and stories of near-death experiences or survival on the tag #nhssavedmylifeHannah has collected some of these tweets in a Storify here.[Please note: this column is put together using Storify, which does not work on our mobile site and apps. If nothing loads below this paragraph, click here to go to Storify itself, or use the desktop version of the site.]12.44pm: Tom Foot, a reporter for the Camden New Journal, was at the Royal Free hospital yesterday for Andrew Lansley's visit. Well, he was outside the hospital: he was told he would not be allowed inside while the health secretary was there. Tom tells us:You can see the video of Lansley at the hospital here.2.35pm: Labour's shadow health minister in the House of Lords, Glenys Thornton, has posted a blog about what she calls the "sell-out" of the NHS by Lib Dem peers. You can read it here.But the defiant tone might not spell good news for those seeking substantive changes to the health bill, writes Tom Clark:2.48pm: Commenters on the politics live blog as well as this one have today been asking for more coverage of the reforms. Although we think we're doing a lot to cover this vast (and often complicated) issue, we're always keen to hear from readers about where our coverage could go next, and there are some interesting suggestions coming through today.From AndyLucia:And here's another suggestion:From nyeannebevan:3.08pm: Is the tide of public - and media - opinion now resolutely against Lansley and the health bill? Denis Campbell, our health correspondent, has found some harsh words for the health secretary from an unexpected quarter. Denis writes:3.24pm: News from the information tribunal, where the Department of Health (DoH) is contesting the decision by the information commissioner that it must publish two risk registers connected to the NHS reforms. Yesterday the tribunal heard from Una O'Brien, permanent secretary at the DoH, and Lord O'Donnell, former cabinet secretary; that report is here.Today the tribunal has heard from John Healey MP, formerly Labour's shadow health secretary. He made the original request to see the register under freedom of information (FoI) rules in 2010. His written witness statement is now available here.Healey says:He goes on:It looks as though the rest of today's evidence will be heard in private. The chair of the tribunal warned yesterday that we were unlikely to hear a verdict today; we'll keep you posted.3.36pm: The House of Lords has now begun debating the health and social care bill. Earl Howe, the health minister, is talking about the problems with social care and an ageing population.3.41pm: Lord Howe commits to a white paper on social care in the spring of this year, and to bringing forward legislation "at the earliest opportunity". He is arguing against an amendment put forward by Labour peer Lord Warner on social care, saying it is unnecessary when a fuller framework for social care changes is in the offing. He admits the primary focus of the current bill is health - "but I do not believe ... social care is the poor relation".3.49pm: The Lords are now voting on Lord Warner's amendment (which I believe is amendment 163AA here).4.02pm: Result of the vote on Lord Warner's amendment on social care:Contents 203Not contents 261The amendment falls.Baroness Thornton (Labour) is now speaking.4.14pm: Baroness Thornton is talking about a raft of amendments, including 178A, 163D and 163BZZA (more details here, in case those don't immediately ring a bell!). Between them, she says, these cover the application of EU competition rules and ensuring there is no legal challenge to NHS commissioners (GPs, presumably) on competition grounds; and defining the NHS "to make clear it is not a market".5.00pm: This blog will be winding up soon, though we will have full reports on the website of the outcome of the Lords debate and the information tribunal later.A summary of today's events Video footage has emerged of Andrew Lansley being heckled by protesters on a visit to the Royal Free hospital in north London. The health secretary was ushered by police and security officers along a corridor as campaigners opposed to his NHS reforms challenged him (see 10.38am and 12.44pm). The House of Lords is debating the health and social care bill again, this time looking at the role of competition in the NHS. There are concerns that two government amendments tabled yesterday do not offer much to those concerned about hospitals using private patients to boost income (see 11.02am and 11.56am). The information tribunal hearing the Department of Health appeal against the publication of the risk register has heard evidence from Labour MP John Healey, who made the original FoI request. He dismissed claims made yesterday by DoH officials that publication would have a "chilling effect" on policy making (see 3.24pm).And finally, please do contribute to our project to map readers' views on the NHS and the proposed reforms. You can share your stories here.5.19pm: Following readers' suggestions for directions we could take our NHS coverage, our communities desk is testing out a new voting tool which allows users to submit ideas and vote on each others suggestions. It's called All Our Ideas and it pitches user suggestions against each other - based on which gets the most votes we will be able to use the tool to help us shape our NHS coverage. Some of the suggestions so far including running a weekend supplement on the NHS bill, and investigating 'vested interests' in the bill from MPs - something our readers have been keen on us looking into further. You can vote for one of these ideas, or submit your own here.