10.10am: Welcome to the NHS reforms live blog. Today the health and social care bill returns to the House of Lords for the report stage, where peers will begin to discuss the details of the proposed changes to the NHS - though the more contentious debates, on competition and regulation, will come later, in March.The Guardian's political team reports today that David Cameron will back his beleaguered health secretary, Andrew Lansley, and is determined to force the bill on to the statute books.Juliette Jowit and Patrick Wintour report:Writing in the Times (£), former Labour health secretary Alan Milburn labels the bill "a roadblock to meaningful reform". He goes on:10.34am: The health and social care bill has had a long and troubled path through parliament since it was introduced in January 2011 - there's a helpful timeline hereOur health correspondent Denis Campbell explains how the next few weeks will look:10.45am: My colleague Andrew Sparrow on the politics live blog has news of Downing Street attempts to "humanise" Lansley, with Cameron's speechwriter, Julian Glover, asked to write a speech explaining the health secretary's passion for the NHS.And so "knowing what it is to have the NHS at your side" became "outcomes frameworks" and "structural integration"...11.33am:  Hi Randeep Ramesh is taking over from Claire. Randeep's the social affairs editor and you can email him at randeep.ramesh@guardian.co.uk or tweet him at @tianran.11.44am: My colleague Patrick Butler has been lookin at the coverage of the influential report from health select committee which took the government to task over failing to integrate care for a rapidly ageing population into its vision for the NHS. The report is here.  11.56am: More bad news for health secretary Andrew Lansley. The 116-year-old Community Practitioners' and Health Visitors' Association (CPHVA) has become the latest professional organisation to come out against the "controversial and pro-privatisation" Health and Social Care Bill. Health visitors were assidiously wooed by Lansley in opposition who made good on his promise to find money to increase their numbers. The health secretary was unstinting in his praise for their work with the disadvantaged. However the love-bombing did not work. Instead the health visitors point out that ministers have blocked attempts by newspapers and the opposition to get hold of the government's own risk assessment. CPHVA chair, Alison Higley says:Instead ministers will face a tribunal hearing - right in the middle of the Lords debate - on whether the public has a right to read the risk register. Not exactly the open government we were all promised.12.04pm: Burgess2 from below the line asks us to And thanks to the magic of Youtube we can The refrain everyone seems to remember is12.09pm: I've just had a reliable Tory source on the phone. Apparently a shot of fear ran through Andrew Lansley's office when the BBC's Nick Robinson announced on the news that another major health body would come out against the reforms. A sigh of relief was heard though when they realised it was the health visitors. Tin hats anyone?12.18pm: My colleague Andrew Sparrow is following Ed Miliband and David Cameron slugging it over the NHS. Here's some choice slices of Sparrow's instant analysis:AndI just caught Cameron calling Labour's amendment to allow hospitals to raise the extra cash from private patients that hospitals by 5%. This would lead the Royal Brompton's income by a quarter. "A crazy, left wing idea" says the PM. Instead the coalition wants a cap of 49% on private patient income - which Labour says is too big a step towards privatisation of the NHS.Fraid that the PM's wrong. Labour is proposing allowing hospitals to raise the amount of cash they can raise from current levels by 5%. So instead of 20% of income, the  Royal Brompton and Harefield, the UK's largest cardio-respiratory centre, can increase this to 25%.Since the hospital in question used to devote an entire section on its website to marketing its "personalised, world-class service" offering patients a city guide and suggesting trips to the "high-end shopping facilities" of nearby Sloane Street and Harrods, there's no question it will be happy with both Labour's idea and the coalition's.12.49pm:  There's a Twitter storm developing around Clare Gerada, the widely respected doctors' leader who has been a fierce critic of the government's health bill. In today's front page Independent story on the health bill written by health editor Jeremy Laurance and Whitehall reporter Oliver Wright, there are hints that behind the opposition lies financial gain for Dr Gerada. This stuff could be explosive or it could be a smear. The relevant paragraphs are:The resulting punch up on Twitter is notable for who stepped up to the plate. Richard Horton is editor of the Lancet. David Rose is former health reporter who now works on the Times news desk. John Rentoul is the Independent's chief political commentator. Toby Young... well he needs no introduction. Enjoy.1.00pm: Kailash Chand, the GP who has been a critic of the coalition reforms, has emailed to point out his epetition to "drop the bill" has now got more than 50,000 people signed up.Dr Chand hopes his petition will get the 100,000 signatures needed to force a debate in the Commons, which could add more delay to the bill's parliamentary progress. So far it's been retweeted by Rio Ferdinand, Jamie Oliver, Stephen Fry and John Prescott. If you are so inclined sign here.1.14pm: Can the NHS transfer or hive off its services to bodies outside the health service's control? That issue is very topical, given the coalition's drive to get more private and voluntary outfits starting to offer healthcare through the introduction of "any qualified provider". Today sees the start of a test case at the High Court in London which could have a major impact on the NHS's ability to outsource certain services. Denis Campbell reports: UPDATE: Dan Gregory, who tweets at @CommonCapital, points out that the question is not whether the NHS can farm out services but whether it's legal "to give work to a social enterprise with no competition". Thanks Dan.2.37pm: Apologies. A phone call dragged me away from the blog. But things are hotting up. On Comment is Free, Ali Parsa, the founder of Circle Health which became the first company to take over the running of an NHS hospital, takes on his criticsHowever in a sharp riposte Ian Greener, professor of social policy at Durham University, writes "Why Ali Parsa is wrong about healthcare (and the NHS)". He writes, in somewhat more restrained language than some commenters, that:Postscript: The Health Service Journal (paywall) has this rather timely story on Circle2.49pm: (corrected)  Ed Miliband's reprising of an attack on the Tory Reform Group blog on the health bill is worth a second look. Craig Barrett, a TRG columnist, wrote yesterday that the health secretary is not the man to run the NHS! Ouch!3.00pm: Dr Kevin O'Kane, head of the London region of the BMA, has been a loud critic of the reforms proposed by the coalition. He writes:3.07pm: Is there anybody who is actively supporting Andrew Lansley's bill. The Institute of Healthcare Management (IHM), the professional organisation representing the rank and file NHS managers, has publicly opposed the Health and Social Care Bill, claiming its advice has been disregarded.An IHM member opinion poll found managers had experienced "worsening conditions" for both patients and NHS staff thanks to the reforms. The results were so powerful that within minutes of the request being posted online, the IHM was able to "confidently" say Health and Social Care managers do not support the Health Bill and the "inevitable consequences" of it.Read more here3.19pm: Éoin Clarke who blogs over at the Green Benches has (another) exclusive. He's got hold of an October version of the risk register for the NHS in London. And it does not make pretty reading: rising costs, big hospital deficits and services wilting.3.23pm: The Welsh government are taking issue with the PM over his comments about the health service in Wales. In the past Mr Lansley accused the NHS in Wales, run by a Labour administration, of denying patients cancer drugs, failing to control killer infections and cutting the health budget.But the PM seems to have been caught out by the Welsh administration's rapid response unit:Claim: The Prime Minister claimed a third of Welsh patients were waiting over 18 weeks for treatment.Fact: The Prime Minister is wrong. At the end of November 2011, 22 per cent (1/5) of Welsh patients waiting over 18 weeks and over from referral to treatment. Our target is that 95 per cent of patients should be waiting less than 26 weeks from referral to treatment.   Claim: The Prime Minister claimed 27 per cent of  patients treated in Wales are waiting over six weeks for direct access to diagnostics at end November 2011.Fact: The Prime Minister is wrong. 18 per cent of Welsh patients are waiting over six weeks for direct access to diagnostics. Our target for direct access to diagnostics is eight weeks3.28pm: Another couple of hours, another voice of dissent over Andrew Lansley's bill. The Faculty of Public Health (FPH), has today joined the growing number of medical organisations which want the Health and Social Care Bill dropped. The faculty, which represents 3,300 public health specialists working in the NHS, local government and academia, announced its decision after finding in a survey of its members that 93% of them believed the Bill would damage both the NHS and the health of people in England.Responsibility for public health is due to transfer from the NHS tolocal councils in England from April 2013 as part of Lansley's plans. My colleague Denis Campbell has been talking to  FPH president Dr Lindsey Davies, who was a senior civil servant at the Department of Health before taking up her current role in July 2010. Here's the highlights:Denis points out that the "faculty's U-turn follows its emergency general meeting two weeks ago when members disgruntled that it was not more strident in its opposition to the Bill passed motions calling for it to harden its stance. That led the faculty to consult its entire membership, who appear to agree with the 200 members who attended the EGM".3.37pm: Andrew Lansley's plans to overhaul #NHS in England have just begun being debated in Lords. To watch live point your browser here. The blog will be following the debate...3.48pm: Earl Howe, the government's man in the Lords, tells peers there's no plan B and the no chance of the bill being dropped. The department of health says that by changing the NHS now - in the form of collapsing primary care trusts and setting up GP commissioners - the taxpayer will save £3.2bn by the end of this parliament.3.52pm: Over in the upper house Lord Naren Patel, former head of the National Patient Safety Agency, is putting forward an amendment backed by Thatcher's former Lord Chancellor Lord Mackay. It is about getting the Secretary of State to put mental health on an equal footing with physical ailments. It's a largely symbolic amendment to emphasise that ministers have a duty as to the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of "physical and mental" illness.3.56pm: Lib Dem councillor and HuffPo blogger Matthew Hulbert says that the health bill has to be dropped because it's Despite valiant attempts to shave off the rough edges by the Lib Dems, says Hulbert, there's nothing else to do but "Cameron needs to swallow his pride, sack his Health Secretary, and bin this bad Bill".Meanwhile over at the blueliberalism blog - "ramblings of a right-wing liberal", the cross-dressing politics of blogger Liam Quinn asks is it not time for David Laws to replace Andrew Lansley. After all, Quinn argues, wasn't Laws idea of compulsory health insurance payments into competing funds a really good idea. Seriously.Sounds like the Lib Dem grassroots are worried about how the NHS reforms - and Andrew Lansley - are playing on the doorstep. After all the local elections are just round the corner.4.34pm: Hi, it's Patrick Butler, here and I'm taking over the blog from Randeep Ramesh until close of play today. You can tweet me at @patrickjbutler4.39pm: Earl Howe asks the House not to pursue a vote on Amendment One. He says he is aware of the issues but would much rather "promote parity of esteem between physical and mental health" through ministerial discussions.Lord Patel is unconvinced however. He's called for a vote, and peers are voting now.4.58pm: The amendment passed!  Content 244  Not content 240This was meant to be a "symbolic" amendment, but Lord Patel - who made some powerful interventions in the Welfare Reform bill - has won the backing of his peers. Could this be a sign of things to come?5.24pm: Everyone seems a bit surprised by the government's defeat on that vote, which called for the secretary of state to give mental health equal parity with physical health on the face of the bill. Here's Lord Hunt, Labour's deputy leader in the Lords, on twitter (@LordPhilofBrum):I think it was by 4 votes, by the way. But, wow, indeed. The bill was backed by Lord Mackay of Clashfern, the former chancellor under Mrs Thatcher, who also rebelled on the welfare bill over Child Support Agency charges, and Lord Alderdyce, a Lib DemIt was a close vote, but it feels a highly symbolic moment. Health minister Lord Howe's offer to peers to open up discussions with ministers over the issue might have been expected to succeed. But Lord Patel was having none of it. Why? I'm speculating, but peers are feeling bruised by the government's implacable resistance to second chamber concerns over the Welfare reform bill. There seems to be a trust issue here.5.34pm: Peers are now discussing a series of amendments relating to the education and training of health workers in the NHS. There are concerns that the bill's proposed arrangements could disrupt the plaiing, provision and quality of nurses, doctors and other health workers.Lord Howe says the government is committed to the training of the healthcare workforce. The secretary of state for health will still have a duty to guarantee effective health workforce education, he says.5.44pm: Here's the breakdown of that vote on amendment one.For the amendmentCrossbench 65Labour 167Liberal Democrat 3Other 9AgainstBishops 1Conservative 153Crossbench 18Liberal Democrat 65Other 3Three Lib Dem rebels - including the serial rebel Baroness Tongue. It looks like Baroness Shirley Williams, who has led much of the Lib Dem attempts to amend the bill, abstained.You can see the full breakdown here5.45pm: The Lords agree not to go to a vote on the amendments around medical training.5.49pm: Baroness Thornton, the Labour peer, is setting out Labour's position on the bill.She asks the minister whether the government will use financial privelidge to  steamroller the bill through, as they did with the welfare reform bill.She says she has rarely seen a bill which is:5.53pm: More reaction on that defeat for the government. Here's Rethink, the mental health charity, which tweets:5.57pm: Ok, I've got to finish now. A colleague of mine from the news desk will be taking over the blog  and keeping an eye on this evening's business.6.49pm: Department of Health said it is committed to balancing both mental and physical health needs equally. 7.21pm: Paul Jenkins, chief executive of charity Rethink Mental Illness, said the government has a duty to put mental and physical illness on an equal footing.8.42pm: A round up of today's events:The government suffered its first defeat on highly controversial plans to reform the health service just hours after the Prime Minister mounted a passionate defence of the shake-up.David Cameron, whose disabled son Ivan died in 2009, told the Commons the overhaul was essential to ensure that everyone received the "amazing" care his family had.But peers backed an amendment, by a majority of four, to the Health and Social Care Bill that called for greater emphasis on mental health when it returned to the Lords. There were three Liberal Democrat rebels - Lord Alliance, Lord Carlile of Berriew and Baroness Tonge.Earlier, the reforms - which puts GPs in charge of budgets - were branded a "disaster" by Labour and respected medical organisations have lined up to criticise it.During Prime Minister's Questions in the Commons, Labour leader Ed Miliband urged Cameron to "give up" on the bill."This is a matter of trust in the Prime Minister," he told MPs. "Can he honestly look people in the health service in the eye and say he's kept his promise of no more top-down reorganisation?"But Cameron insisted GPs were not just "supporting our reforms, they are implementing our reforms"."I care passionately about the NHS, not least because of what it has done for my family and because of the amazing service that I have received," he said."I want to see that excellent service implemented for everyone and that means two things: it means we have got to put more money into the NHS, and we are putting the money in, but it also means we have got to reform the NHS."Health Secretary Andrew Lansley has been widely criticised for his handling of the flagship bill, which Mr Cameron was forced to "pause" last year after the fierce backlash.But the Prime Minister dismissed suggestions Lansley's job could be on the line over the issue.9.06pm: Shadow health secretary Andy Burnham gives his reaction to the defeat:12.13am: Health minister Simon Burns speaks out in defence of the bill and insists that many professional health organisations support elements of the reforms.1.00am: It's time to wrap up the live blog on the NHS reform debate for today.In the meantime here's a round up of the main developments. The government suffered its first defeat on the controversial plans to reform the NHS in the House of Lords after peers backed an amendment calling for a greater emphasis on mental health. But Prime Minister David Cameron launched a passionate defence of the shake up claiming that the reforms were needed to ensure everyone receives "amazing" care. Labour urged Cameron to give up on the bill with shadow health secretary Andy Burnham claiming the government was damaging frontline patient care with the reorganisation. The Prime Minister gave his backing to health secretary Andrew Lansley has been widely criticised for his handling of the flagship bill, saying his job was not under threat. Mental health charities said the defeat was an encouraging sign that mental health was being given an equal footing to physical health.