 Why an airline ticket refund may be nothing  A report last week by the Air Transport Users' Council (AUC) called for greater transparency from airlines over fares. It said they should be required to quote the total, including taxes and other "service fees" and charges, upfront. "Airlines are stripping away these charges in order to quote the best fare and British Airways is the worst culprit," said James Fremantle, the AUC's industry adviser. But it is not just at the time of booking that airlines - and BA in particular - can be reluctant to let customers know the full picture. When it comes to refunds, one Consumer reader found the airline less than willing to pay up. "My family was to travel to Spain on February 10 and we booked flights with BA directly over the internet," writes Lucy Hebb. "My daughter had an accident a few days before departure and we had to cancel the trip. I duly made a claim for £327.60 - the cost of the flights - with Direct Line, our insurer. It issued a cheque for £92 - £327.60 less £120 excess (four at £30), less airport taxes of £115.60."Direct Line said that as we had not flown, the airport taxes would not be paid by BA and should be refunded - not something BA volunteered when I cancelled the flights."  Direct Line supplied Hebb with a letter to send to BA requesting reimbursement of the flight taxes. It was correct, it turned out, that she was entitled to a refund. But, said the email reply from BA customer services, "Regrettably, I must advise you there is no refund due against your ticket." Why? "The tax value to which you are entitled is less than the administration fee BA applies for processing a refund application." The admin charge is £30 per person - a total of £120, against the £115.60 Hebb was owed.  "Direct Line does not cover admin charges, so I lose out all round," she says. "I find this grossly unfair. It took me minutes to pay BA in the first place and I can't accept that it costs a refund at four x £30. It is only making one refund for something it charged me for and now does not have to pay. Surely this isn't acceptable?"  Oh yes it is - according to British Airways, anyway. "Having a standard admin charge per ticket   is the fairest way to handle refunds," says a spokesman. "For instance, if BA had a £30 refund charge per booking (including groups), then in Hebb's case, the refund would have worked out at approx £7.50 per ticket. However, customers on a single booking would have to pay £30 for a refund.  "Also, bookings with two or more people do not save the refund clerk any more time, as each ticket must be processed rather than the booking. So from our point of view, a refund admin charge per ticket is the fairest and most sensible approach."  And it is not an approach unique to BA; in fact, the AUC warns air passengers about the practice on its website: "[there is no] law that prevents them from charging an administration charge for processing the refund. We have seen cases where the administration charge exactly equals the amount of tax being refunded!" Or, in Hebb's case, exceeds it...  The AUC also points out that airlines rarely offer to refund these charges on cancelled flights: "You have to ask." But asking - even enlisting the help of Consumer - can only get you so far. BA is immovable: "Unfortunately, there is nothing I can do to help Mrs Hebb with this inquiry."  More can mean less with BT Mobile   The theme of unhelpful customer service continues, albeit with a rather more positive outcome this time. Keith Povey emailed from Exeter at the start of February to detail his lengthy tussle with BT Mobile. Having bought a mobile on a 12-month contract in June 2004, with which he had had no problems, Povey decided last December to take advantage of a deal at Carphone Warehouse to add a second mobile to the account. It took until the second week of January for this phone to be up and running: "OK, we thought, it is the Christmas/new year period... but my own phone was disconnected. Carphone Warehouse checked and found BT Mobile had misunderstood the arrangement and thought I was replacing mobiles, not adding a new one to the same account." No problem, said BT Mobile, and within a week, Povey was reconnected. However, he was not reconnected to his own number, "which I have had for a long time and which I wished to retain", but with the original number that had come with the handset.  "BT Mobile was rung many, many times and I spoke to different people - all of whom had no record of any previous discussion on the matter," Povey writes. "I was promised at various times immediate reconnection, 24-hour, 48-hour and after the weekend reconnections. Then I was totally disconnected again. Apparently my own telephone number is now 'lost'." He was sent two additional Sim cards, neither of which worked. Promises by customer services to ring back with a solution were not kept. Because his son's phone is currently working well, Povey does not wish to abandon BT Mobile altogether (though he has bought a pay-as-you-go Orange phone while the saga drags on). But he would like an apology.  Though it takes six weeks of Consumer prodding, an apology does emerge. "We have apologised to Mr Povey for the considerable inconvenience he has been caused," says a spokesman for BT Mobile. "We are undertaking investigations into how these problems have arisen and why it has taken so long to resolve them. Early indications are that there has been a breakdown in process between ourselves and Carphone Warehouse. The original problem was compounded by adviser error and we will be coaching any adviser who can be identified.  "In this case we have fallen short of the standard we set for ourselves," he adds - and Povey has received £150 to make up for it.  · Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your full address and phone number.