 Madrid to Mexico - an Iberia flight to forget There were grumbles from the airline industry last month when EU rules came into force boosting the amount of compensation companies will be obliged to pay to passengers whose flights are cancelled or delayed, or who get elbowed off their planes because of overbooking. From now on, even if you've managed to bag one of those elusive "fly for tuppence" tickets, you will be entitled to anything up to £420 for the inconvenience of a disrupted journey. When flights are delayed for two hours or more, all sorts of treats, including free food and drinks, phone calls or a hotel room (if the airline can't get you on a flight that same day), could now be yours. And after five hours of departure-gate waiting, the airline must offer to refund your ticket. Sadly, these consumer-friendly regulations did not apply back in November 2004, when reader Patsy Southwell, from Kingswood, Gloucestershire, flew with Iberia from Madrid to Mexico City. "We had to make an emergency landing in Lisbon (smoke coming out of the hold) and were left for six hours, cold and hungry, with no information," she writes. "While the landing at Lisbon was obviously necessary, albeit distressing, the handling of passengers at the airport was extremely poor and added unnecessarily to the trauma." Southwell was told to leave all hand luggage and her jacket on the plane - necessary, perhaps, as it was an emergency - but was upset to be offered no blankets or hot drinks at the airport. "There seemed to be one stewardess left to deal with 300 people, with no resources," she adds.  Iberia did fund a hotel room for the enforced sleepover in Lisbon, but, adds Southwell, "I missed my connecting flight to La Paz and had to stay a night in Mexico City."  On her return, Iberia lost her case, though it was traced 48 hours later. Southwell wrote twice to Iberia requesting redress for "an experience which severely detracted from the enjoyment of my holiday as well as losing me two days of holiday", but received no response from either the London or Madrid addresses she was given.  Off to Iberia's Madrid-based press office, then, where a spokesman who was in Lisbon for part of the evening in question promises to investigate why Southwell's complaint met with silence. In the meantime, he explains that: "Lisbon airport is open 24 hours, but the services inside are at minimum, not prepared to receive 300 passengers in the middle of the night. So the time that lasted between the landing and the Iberia people attending the passenger was the minimum needed to wake them up, and run them to the airport."   As far as financial compensation for what a spokeswoman calls "the various problems, delay and frustrations you experienced on the ground", Iberia is now offering Southwell a € 300 travel voucher, plus a request for details of any extra expenses caused by the disruption to her holiday plans. The company also sends "our most sincere apologies for everything that went wrong".  Southwell declares herself "not very thrilled", though €300 is the maximum compensation dished out by airlines (barring the budget ones, which offered nothing) prior to February's new rules. Despite this, she says, "I certainly won't fly Iberia again".      When Nectar left a sour taste "Before Christmas, I was sent some Nectar vouchers," writes Lesley Marron-Cole from north London. "If I spent £60 in one go at Sainsbury's, they would give me 2,000 extra points." The kind of bonus, in fact, that tempts so many of us to sign up for loyalty cards in the first place. However, in Marron-Cole's case there was a problem. She used the first of these vouchers in November and duly saw her points zoom up by 2,000. But when she tried to use the second, in December, no credit appeared.  An email to Nectar customer services elicited the response that: "The bonus coupon you refer to does not correspond to your account. The bonus coupon is for a different account, therefore we are unable to credit these points to your account . . . The first coupon would not have been for the account number you have provided and therefore should not have been credited to your account."  Indeed, the number printed on the vouchers did not, upon inspection, turn out to be Lesley Marron-Cole's. It was, however, the number on her husband Julian's Nectar card, even   though the mailing containing the vouchers had been addressed to her.  The whole muddle has been caused, it appears, because the Marron-Coles's two loyalty cards were not - as they had previously requested - been linked. The couple, believing the link had been enabled, had, not surprisingly, been using their Nectar cards "like a joint account".  Sainsbury's now accepts that the cards ought to have been linked, but points out that "due to a duplication of adding points", both cards were credited with the 2,000 bonus points, which the couple will keep. "In addition," says a Sainsbury's spokeswoman, "they will receive an additional 1,000 Nectar points from Loyalty Management UK, who will also ensure that their two cards are linked."      Reasons to cheer Oxford University Press  It has been a while since Consumer received some good news, so an email from reader Judith Flanders, of London, was eagerly seized upon. Flanders subscribes to an online journal with the Oxford University Press, but discovered three separate charges for the same subscription had appeared on her credit card.  "Within a day of my notifying them by email," she writes, "I had an apology from their lovely customer services representative (thanks, Mike Perry!), confirmation of a credit, a promise to pay any additional costs I had incurred in straightening the matter out, plus a free three-month subscription to an online journal of my choice, by way of compensation." Such exemplary service has, she adds, earned OUP her "undying loyalty". Store cards, take note...· Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your full address and phone number.