 Four month wait for ntl to check faulty system Now, Consumer is no band of Luddites, but we can't help but notice the disproportionate load in the weekly postbag that relates to problems with new technology companies. The assorted crew that supply you with broadband, multi-channels and so on are fast challenging the energy companies for the number of hitches and hiccups they force you to report. First up this week is ntl. Rob Nott, from Bournemouth, had an ntl package installed in September 2004. "From that day onwards it has been malfunctioning on a regular basis," he says. And not in a minor, bang-the-top-of-the-telly way, either - the TV signal would disappear for up to a fortnight at a time; the picture would freeze, or Nott would be unable to change channels at all; programme details would stay superimposed over the screen, and sometimes the picture would vanish altogether, although the sound played on.  Nott tried ringing customer services, but could not get through (a general letter to ntl customers acknowledged "some delay in answering customer calls", due to "a programme of service improvements    to give you a better level of customer service"). He tried sending letters by recorded delivery, but received no reply. Finally, in December, after four letters, there was some progress - a call from the complaints department and a promise of a visit from an   engineer. The engineer did not turn up. Nevertheless, Nott received a letter from ntl's customer liaison department informing him that it had "now closed this query on our system".  "It is now more than four months since ntl fitted a malfunctioning system, for which it has been collecting payments regardless, and it seems to be uninterested in fixing it," Nott writes. "I seem to have hit a brick wall, being totally ignored by ntl, and wondered if there is anything you can do to make it acknowledge I exist?"   After a gentle prod from Consumer, Nott is soon back on the ntl radar. A company spokesman agrees that "the standard of service experienced by Mr Nott is unacceptable and   [we] unreservedly apologise to him". What is more, it seems he might, for the first time since installation last autumn, be about to receive a functioning service. An engineer has been dispatched to resolve the problems, which ntl believes are attributable to a faulty set-top box. His account is to be reimbursed with the money he has so far spent on his unsatisfactory TV service, and two months' credit will be added on top by way of apology.   Telewest seems unaware of its own services   Being ignored by customer services is one thing, but sometimes there is such a thing as too much information ... Readers Mike and Cheryl Capper from South Shields were not impressed to find that their 11-year-old daughter, while scrolling through the TV listings on Telewest digital, could access programme information on channels to which the Cappers, quite deliberately, do not subscribe ("Older and Perverted" and "Pussy Whipped" being just a couple that proved difficult to explain). "It transpires that Telewest does not see anything remotely wrong in displaying the titles of their adult films, however graphic, without warning or discretion," the Cappers write. "When contacted, the company at first told us it was a fault, being rectified as we spoke, then later that it was, in fact, policy to display such titles. They invited us to complain, stating that if enough subscribers did so, it may sway the management to block such titles."   Telewest management do not, in fact, need to be swayed to block listings for adult channels - there is a simple means of   doing so in the TV settings, and the Cappers should, a spokeswoman now says, have been told about this when they rang customer services.  The company recommends this option to anyone with children, as it allows them to blank out the programme titles on chosen channels. A "senior customer services manager" will now ring the Cappers to talk them through this procedure and to apologise for the wrong information they were given first time round.   Wanadoo doesn't do over fulfilling an order   And so on to another technological wonder that seems to cause a good number of you to put pen to paper - broadband. Wanadoo launched its Livebox last summer, "offering a full wireless broadband solution ... [a] revolutionary piece of equipment". Reader David Gist, from Hastings, didn't disagree - but he would like actually to receive the Livebox he ordered and paid for back in November last year.  Having placed his order on November 10, and seen the cash debited from his card shortly after, Gist sat back and waited for the solution to his computer needs to appear. And waited. Calls to customer service revealed a variety of reasons for the delay. "Initially I was told that there was an (unspecified) problem with the billing, which was apparently 'cleared' during a subsequent call," he writes. "My last three enquiries have been answered with the information that my order had not been received by the 'escalation department', but each time the customer services adviser assured me that he/she would make sure that the order was dispatched properly." Yet no Livebox appeared.  Eventually, towards the end of January, a letter from Wanadoo customer care popped up, making no mention of the delay but requesting Gist's email address and date of birth, duly supplied. Since then, nothing.   A nudge from Consumer focuses the attention of Wanadoo customer services, which responds speedily. The three-month delay, it turns out, was due to "an administration error that meant Mr Gist's order wasn't picked up by our courier service". An isolated incident, Wanadoo assures us. The elusive Livebox has now really, honestly, been dispatched, and Gist will be consoled with one month's free broadband access in recompense.  · Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your full address and phone number.