NPower glitch generates anger but no electricity Temperatures drop and utility bills go up ... Last week saw energy giant Scottish and Southern Energy announce price rises well above inflation: 9.1% for gas bills and 6.7% for electricity. It follows hikes already revealed in recent weeks by competitors Powergen, Scottish Power and EDF Energy. Alan Tattersall, head of home services at uSwitch.com, which compares energy prices, says: "2005 has so far not been a good year for consumers as far as their energy bills are concerned. This isn't a trend we expect to see falter any time soon, so it's now more imperative than ever   that consumers check to see if they can save money by switching supplier." A good move, you might think - although not every consumer finds switching such a simple step.  "In early July 2004, my partner and I decided to switch the supplier of our gas and electricity from Scottish Hydro Electric to NPower Juice," Steve West writes from Edinburgh. "We chose NPower's Juice wind power scheme because of our concern about global warming." Paperwork was sent to them and duly returned, and direct debits set up, from which NPower promptly started deducting its money.  Only when West contacted Hydro to check the status of a refund he was due on the previous electricity   account was he informed that, in fact, Hydro was still his supplier. It was, said NPower, an oversight; it would re-send the switch notification documents to Hydro.  Things got more confusing when West received three letters from NPower warning of a price increase: "Two of them had my name, the other was addressed to the Occupier. All three had variations on my address. They quoted three different account numbers. Alarm bells started ringing." West lives in a tenement flat, the numbering for which, he admits, is confusing. But an hour-long phone call to NPower in late October turned up more perplexing details: "The supply number for my electricity meter did not correspond with any of the three account numbers quoted on the three letters."  Promises that his case would be referred to the NPower ET Investigations Department yielded no result, other than more (wrong) electricity bills and, eventually, a claim that there was no record of the earlier phone call and no notes on his file about the supply number problems.  A letter admitting that another person's account had wrongly been switched instead of West's was followed by yet more incorrect bills from NPower, and continuing demands from Hydro. West called the investigations department in late January, only to be told, once again, that there was no record of the saga.  "I have kept my cool for months and repeatedly tried to get it to correct its mistakes," says West. "Now its letters referring to our 'debt' are making me angry and depressed. We have lost time and money, including loss of the discounts for having both gas and electricity with the same supplier.  "We still want to have NPower    supply our electricity, as we want to support its renewable energy scheme. Please help."  - The web of addresses, supply numbers and billing accounts starts to unravel once Consumer steps in and West writes back to say that, "after months of unfulfilled promises from the call-centre staff", he is now "confident that, this time, it will finally be OK". The phantom accounts and addresses have been cancelled and he has been assured that he will receive no more letters about them - "an immense relief", he says. The wrongly deducted direct debits, totalling £100, have been refunded, and he is to receive the £50 discount he should have had all along for being a dual-fuel customer. Finally, his electricity account is now very definitely switched over to the Juice scheme - six months after filling in what is meant to be a simple form.     Ticketmaster wrong to advise disabling firewall  Online ticket retailer Ticketmaster's advice to customers trying unsuccessfully to purchase pre-sale U2 tickets, as recently documented on these pages, has come under fire from some readers. Ticketmaster advised would-be purchasers having difficulties with the website to disable some of their computers' privacy features. "Some browser or firewall settings have been found to conflict with the security checks in place as part of the purchase process," said the Ticketmaster statement. "Subscribers may find that disabling the privacy features relating to the way in which your browser or firewall handles URL information may allow you to proceed through to the purchase pages and complete your booking."  The company did add: "Ticketmaster does not recommend making any changes that could expose your computer to internet security threats, and further Ticketmaster accepts no liability for any harm caused by changes made to your privacy features." Reader Nigel Steel was astonished at the advice. "This irresponsible behaviour is the computing equivalent of telling someone to leave their front door open before going on holiday ... No one, under any circumstances, should turn off their firewall when connected to the internet, nor should any responsible company be advising people to do so."  - Guardian Online's computer expert Jack Schofield agrees that Ticketmaster should not be recommending switching off a firewall. "It's bad advice - the system should work with a firewall, no doubt about it. Since it doesn't know if the reader is well protected, then it's likely to be risky."  Such advice, he says, belongs to a past era when "the internet used to be quite a nice place; but it's not any more. And people must design e-commerce sites to deal with this."  Though he says this kind of problem is not unique to this online retailer, "Ticketmaster should work to develop systems that don't require the firewall to be disabled. I can't see anything on its site that would make any difference if you did drop the firewall, so I don't understand why it gives that advice."  For security, Schofield recommends a router with a firewall, with Microsoft Windows XP2 as a minimum (more at www.guardian.co.uk/online/askjack).