There is competition, though, for the Villain of the Week award, from Celebrity Big Brother's who-she? housemate, Lisa I'Anson. With online talkboards dedicated to the pressing matter of "why is she such a cow?" (her claim that "I have sexual magnetism over all men" apparently being reason enough for many anti-devotees), she seems unlikely to fulfil John McCririck's wish to see her walk off with the winner's prize. Incidentally, is it only Sidelines who wishes that all boorish sexists were more like McCririck? That is, so utterly ridiculous that the desire to argue with him is completely outweighed by the temptation to pat him condescendingly on his silly little head.  Mothers, too, are proving strong contenders in the boo-hiss stakes. Following the "comedy" antics of Fathers 4 Justice campaigners (there's a reason why the phrase "dad joke" has become shorthand for excruciatingly embarrassing behaviour), Lord Falconer has outlined new plans to kick recalcitrant mothers into touch. Curfews for blocking fathers' access have been mooted, presumably by officials who have so far failed to calculate that single mother plus custody of children equals semi-permanent curfew   anyway. Electronic tagging has also not been ruled out, which we can only assume has given great succour to those who believe that the only good mum is a stay-at-home mum.  Amid news that Brian McFadden is set to bid for custody of their two children, Sidelines would like to extend a friendly pat on the shoulder to Kerry Katona. Since her marital split last year, she has so far dyed her hair, lost a dramatic amount of weight and had a fling with her ex, and was this week spotted singing I Will Survive at a karaoke bar in Warrington. By our reckoning, that puts her approximately two-thirds of the way through the What Every Woman Should Do Post-Breakup manual.   We couldn't help but be struck by the resemblance between Adriana Iliescu - at 66, the world's oldest new mother - and recent pictures of Margaret Thatcher. We can only hope that little Eliza Maria proves not to be such trouble for her poor old mum as that scamp Mark. Terrible, isn't it, when they go through that getting-involved-in-political-coups phase ...
    