 TV or no TV? That is the annoying question  The recent anguish of N Bloxham at attempts by TV Licensing to pursue him for payment, even though he is not in possession of a TV and has no intention of being so, struck a chord with many of you. If the resulting mailbag is anything to go by, there are a fair number of non-telly-watching Guardian readers who resent the assumption that the only way to spend an evening is in front of the box. "I too have no TV. Do not have one. Never had one. Never likely to have one. But I have been harassed by these people for 20 months," writes John Faulkner, from Worcester.  "We used to have a TV and I am grateful to the TV licensing authority for prompting us to be rid of it," says   John Leach, from Lancaster. "It is a long story of incompetence by the TV licensing authority and ultimately the realisation that there is a lack of content in the broadcasts."  "I have never owned a TV set," chips in Dave Eyre, of Sheffield. "Since there is no compulsion to own a TV set and no compulsion to tell the TV licensing people whether one does or not, I have had lots of correspondence over the years with the people in Bristol (as it is now)."  The story might at first appear straightforward. TV Licensing - run under contract from the BBC by Capita, which also administers the congestion charge and the Criminal Records Bureau - writes to householders at unlicensed properties pointing out the need to buy a licence if they   watch TV. Non-telly-addicts write back to say they do not. This is where the straightforward part ends.  "The letters from TV licensing arrive regularly," writes Leach. "My concern is that the letters are forcibly worded and I know people who find them intimidating." "In my case, it was heart-stopping 'final demands'," says Andrew Denny, of Aylsham, "including threats of prosecution."  Anne Liddon, of Tynemouth, adds: "We have lived at the same address for nearly 25 years, have never owned a television and have been through this cycle of threatening letters many, many times. I long ago realised that the response one makes to the licensing authority actually makes no difference whatsoever."  It is not simply the refusal to countenance the possibility of life without television that irks readers; what really riles you is what many see as a heavy-handed approach: letters make dark references to prosecution, to interviews "under caution" and to impending visits by "enforcement officers". "Do they have a right to enter my house for this purpose?" asks Berry Mayall of London. Catherine Lewis of   Sheffield says: "I sometimes think I might get rid of my TV - are you saying that I must then have my house searched regularly to prove it?"  - Back to TV Licensing for an explanation. "[We] are bound by law to ensure that anyone who uses or installs television receiving equipment to receive television programme services without a valid licence is caught, on behalf of the honest majority who do pay," says spokesperson Sophie Griffiths. "The evasion rate is now at an all-time low of an estimated 5.7%."  All good, of course, but those without TVs are not, in fact, evading the licence fee. Why should the onus be on the householder to prove that he or she does not need one? "Television penetration currently stands at 98% of the UK population," Griffiths explains. "The purpose of our visit is to identify genuine non-users. Unfortunately, our experience over the last financial year has shown that almost half of all people who claimed not to have a television were using one." (Though that, as   one Consumer reader pointed out, means more than half were telling the truth ...)  And yes, you do have the right to refuse a visit. Under the Wireless Telegraphy Act of 1949, TVL must apply to a magistrate for a warrant, granted only if there is reasonable suspicion that you own a TV. Human rights group Liberty, however, advises that turning away an agent is not necessarily the quickest way to end the hassle: "It might be best in the long term if you do allow them to see that you do not have a TV set, and emphasise that you do not wish to be contacted again."  Frustrated readers might take solace in a report published in December by the Commons select committee on culture, media and sport. "We are well aware of concerns that the BBC's agent, TV Licensing, has sometimes deployed inappropriate tactics in attempts to maximise collection of the licence fee," wrote the MPs. "These have included a crude and damaging assumption that every household must be in possession of a TV set." The report recommended that non-payment should become a civil, rather than a criminal, matter - a stand against heavy-handedness, yes, but not likely to assuage those who do not need a licence in the first place.  So what relief is there for non-viewers? It seems there is no quick way out: whether or not you allow an agent to check your home, a new visit will be authorised two years later, although, says Griffiths, "if the householder still does not require a licence, a new guard is placed on the address to prevent mailings for a period of up to several years".  One reader, however, having informed TVL of his lack of a telly, prefers a more direct approach: "The letters have not stopped. Fortunately, the council operates a paper recycling scheme."  Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please give a full postal address and telephone number.