 Flight refund lands at last "What do you do when companies apparently accept that you are due a payment, but just do not deliver?" writes Jo Richardson, from Bembridge on the Isle of Wight. Good question. For while a fair proportion of the Consumer postbag is taken up with tales of customer services that have seemingly sent all their customers to Coventry, silence and bluster are not the only options for companies unwilling to tackle complaints efficiently. Sometimes, as in Richardson's case, a helpful reply can yield equally useless results. The saga began almost a year ago, in February 2004, when Richardson attempted to book two Alitalia flights from Heathrow to Naples through the Expedia travel website. However, her computer crashed as the transaction was being authorised, so Richardson sent the details again, only to find herself double-booked. As readers of this column will know, the wonders of technology all too often mask a lack of common sense, but here Expedia in fact proved rather helpful.  An email from the support team on February 29, after Richardson had alerted Expedia to the error, suggested the duplication could be resolved fairly quickly: "We fully understand how this has happened, but will need to contact Alitalia to ask if you can have a full refund on the second booking. As it stands at the moment, the rule is that your flights are non-refundable; however, the airlines special sales department is open on March 1 and we are hoping to get a more positive answer from them then."  The answer was indeed positive: Richardson could have her refund. Come September, however, and the £238 refund in question had still not popped up on her credit card. Another email from Expedia apologised for the delay: "I am sorry this is taking such a long time ... Alitalia has advised our refunds department that the refund will be back on your credit card by the end of September."  Yet 2004 has passed into 2005, the emails have fallen silent, and there is still no sign of the promised refund.  Off to Alitalia, where some digging turns up some surprising answers. Yes, Richardson is entitled to her money back on the second booking; and yes, Alitalia had conceded that way back on March 1 last year. So why the 10-month delay?  Contrary to the assertions made by Expedia in its emails to Richardson, it appears it is not, after all, Alitalia's responsibility to see the money returned to her credit card. "As the booking and payment were made on their website, Expedia will need to process the refund themselves, as Alitalia obviously does not hold Ms Richardson's credit card details," explains an airline   spokesman. Authorisation for this was, in fact, given to Expedia in March by the airline.  Back to Expedia then, which, despite the helpful emails, has apparently been sending Richardson in quite the wrong direction in search of her £238. A spokeswoman confirms that there has been a mix-up; it is not immediately clear where the confusion crept in, but there has been, she says, a misunderstanding between Expedia's customer care department and Alitalia somewhere along the (lengthy) line. Further investigations are to be carried out to ascertain quite why a problem that could have been resolved in March last year drifted into 2005. In the meantime, Richardson's refund has at last been enacted, only six weeks shy of the year anniversary.      Wanadoo woe You can run, but you can't hide: Stuart Bell of Altrincham, Cheshire, wrote in last year after Wanadoo repeatedly overcharged him for broadband access. After Consumer stepped in, Wanadoo promised (on December 16) a refund for the sum wrongly taken from his bank account, plus a payment of £53, the equivalent of three months' free service. A letter sent to Bell in the same month assured him that a cheque for the full amount had been raised.  However, Bell now writes, "Unfortunately, despite the promises we have received from Wanadoo, the refund cheques have never appeared. Could you prompt them into action again?"   Indeed we could - after all, we love a happy ending that actually comes true. Back to a newly apologetic Wanadoo, where a spokesman confirms the "continued delay". A full refund is now to be issued, he promises, and the cheque will be on the Bell doormat by Monday January 10 "at the very latest".  Monday comes and goes, as does Tuesday .. and no cheque. Wednesday morning, however, brings a welcome delivery: £121.96, as promised. The delay, it transpires, was because the refund had been sent to the wrong address; "Luckily," says Bell, "the Post Office sussed it out." And that - we hope - is the end of what, quite unnecessarily, became a five-and-a-half-month saga.      Dyson quick off the mark Sometimes, though (before we all become jaded, so early in the year), companies are as good as their word. Dyson, so keen in its ads to distance itself from its competitors, is also proving pretty innovative in the customer services stakes.  "I have a Dyson vacuum cleaner and noticed in cleaning it on Sunday January 2, that the thin black rubber gasket inside the drum had lost its elasticity," writes Kate Odgers, from Hove, Sussex. "I sent an email at noon the same day directly to the company, asking if it could tell me where I could buy a gasket. To my amazement and delight, a Dyson representative phoned me at 5pm that day and said the company would send me a gasket, free of charge, which arrived Thursday January 6.  "Getting a reply the same day and on a Sunday during a holiday weekend makes Dyson stand out. I believe such efforts should get as much publicity as companies who fail consumers miserably." Consider it done. Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please enclose full postal address and telephone number.