 Phone company refuses to replace lost mobile  A tale of two lost phones this week. And what a miserable experience that can be: a couple of days adrift in the land of no phone contact, followed by hours of finger-numbing inputting all those numbers into the new phone, when it arrives courtesy of your expensive, extensive insurance. That is, if the expensive, extensive insurance pays up. Renata Allamandi emails from London to say that, following the loss of her phone earlier this month, Vodafone has refused a replacement because, it points out, she did not notify the police within 48 hours of realising the phone had vanished.  Now, leaving aside the question of whether a misplaced mobile warrants a trip to the local police station (South Yorkshire is just one of many forces to warn: "If you lose your mobile do not report it as stolen just to get a replacement handset. South Yorkshire Police investigates each reported stolen mobile phone vigorously and any reports found to be false could result in prosecution"), Allamandi is adamant that she was not told of this policy when purchasing her   phone and the £5.59-a-month "five-star plus" insurance from Vodafone. "As far as I could see, I had not agreed to go to the police and say my lost phone had been stolen, within any period of time," she says. "I don't understand how they can turn my claim down. I contacted Vodafone the minute I realised I had lost my phone ... but they tell me this is not enough."    Vodafone is insistent that customers should always report a missing phone to the police, whether stolen or simply lost, as it is a "high value item". Fair enough. But if Allamandi wasn't made aware of this, either in the original insurance paperwork or over the phone, it does seem a little harsh to refuse her a new handset.  Fortunately, Vodafone now sees the sense in this - although the 48-hour rule is its official line across its range of insurance policies, there is, admits a spokesman, "scope for interpretation". The revised interpretation yields the happy result of a brand new phone for Allamandi, and a rather swisher model than her previous one, to boot. On top of that, she has been offered six    months' free insurance, and some friendly advice about checking her house contents insurance to see whether splashing out for mobile-specific cover is actually necessary (good advice for all readers, one might add).      Customer services fails to keep record of calls  But Vodafone is not the only mobile company to come over all reticent when there are insurance claims to be resolved. Ashley Dahl's teenage son also lost his mobile, back in July. This time the issue was not whether or not to contact the police, but whether or not O2's customer services team could keep a record of the numerous calls made by Dahl and his son to report the lost phone and secure a replacement - and whether its representatives would ever phone back, despite repeated promises to do so.  Despite receiving an email from customer services acknowledging the report of the phone's disappearance and promising that the insurance department would be awaiting a call from the Dahls, the latter claimed never to have had word of the incident. And so the Dahls were advised to go back to customer services - via a 50p-a-minute phone number. "Given that attempting to make contact with an appropriate person at O2 by phone rarely takes less than an hour, I was not prepared to do this," says Dahl.  Various emails later, with still not a hint of a new handset in sight, the Dahls cancelled their direct debit to O2 and switched instead to a pay-as-you-go mobile from another provider. But despite its sketchy phone logs, O2, it seems, certainly had kept a record of the money it believed it was owed by the phoneless Dahls - and sent a bill in September for £100.36.    O2 responds swiftly when Consumer dials up on the Dahls' behalf. There were several opportunities to get matters sorted before this point, the company concedes, but it failed to do so.  Still, better late than never - the insurance wing has now been passed all the information it should have had back in the summer to move the Dahls' claim along smoothly. O2 confirms the account is now closed and that the outstanding balance has been wiped clear. In addition, a £30 credit is on its way to Dahl Jr to salve the inconvenience.  No word, though, on why it should charge such a hefty amount for the privilege of speaking to a customer services adviser to get such matters sorted in the first place.      Fax Corp says pay up or we'll sell your fax number   Communication difficulties of a different nature have blighted the life of Peter Langley, of Stretton-on-Dunsmore: "I have just received a fax from an Indian-based company called Fax Corp, telling me that they have obtained my fax number and wish to sell it to various fax advertising agencies located outside the EU."  Langley, unsurprisingly, did not find this a cause for joy. However, there was a handy get-out clause: he could simply fill in a form, fax it back to Fax Corp within five working days and his number, and privacy, would be spared. All, of course, via a premium-rate line, which would mean a cost to him of £1.50. "It seems absurd that I have to spend money to prevent a potentially large number of people sending me unwanted faxes," Langley pleads, not unreasonably.    Off to the Information Commissioner's Office, where they have heard all this before. Their advice? Bin the fax. It is, Consumer readers will not be too amazed to hear, a scam. There is no evidence, says the ICO's spokesman, that this company is actually passing on details to other firms, and it is certainly not worth the extortionate fee to respond to the missive.  Unfortunately, it is nigh on impossible to take action against    tricksters such as this, as they operate from outside UK borders, but it would be well worth Langley's while - and anyone with a fax machine they prefer not to be constantly clogged with marketing bilge - registering with the Fax Preference Service (www.fpsonline.org.uk; 020-7291 3330), to prevent bombardment from companies here.      Boiler manufacturer springs into action  Consumer always likes to hear stories of good customer service, but is unusually impressed this week to hear of a firm that treats those who are not its customers equally well.  Christine Mark moved to a new home and discovered the previous owners had not left the manual for the Ariston combi boiler. An email to Ariston yielded an overnight response directing Mark to the relevant page on its website.  A later request for advice on servicing the boiler prompted a speedy email with two names and numbers of local engineers, plus a follow-up phone call to make sure all had gone to plan.  "I'm impressed," says Mark, and, frankly, it's not often Consumer gets letters saying that. · Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your full postal address and telephone number