
	The arrest of Sinn Féin leader Gerry Adams in Northern Ireland is a political scam.
	Coming three weeks before major elections in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland in which Sinn Féin candidates are surging, it's the equivalent of what we in the U.S.A. call an October Surprise.
	At the insistence of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, Adams turned himself in on Wednesday to be questioned in the murder of Jean McConville, a mother of 10 who was dragged from her home in front of her kids by armed gunmen in 1972.
	Her body was dug up on an Irish beach in 2003.
	"I believe that the killing of Jean McConville and the secret burial of her body was wrong and a grievous injustice to her and her family," Adams has said.
	Adams heads the nationalist Sinn Féin political party that was once considered the political wing of the Provisional Irish Republican Army. He was the most outspoken political face of the Republican movement during the Troubles that for a quarter-century divided the six Northern Ireland counties of Ulster still under British rule.
	It was only after President Bill Clinton granted Gerry Adams an American visa in 1994 to attend a peace conference in New York that serious talks resulted in a lasting peace in Northern Ireland.
	In the years since, Sinn Féin has become a very powerful political party in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland, leading the polls in the current political races three weeks before Election Day on May 22.
	Sinn Féin has surged so strongly in the Republic of Ireland on its platform of a united, 32-county Ireland that some Irish pundits believe Adams' party might even take majority rule in the national 2016 elections that will also mark the centennial of the Easter Rising of 1916 that led to the creation of the Irish free state.
	Since the violence ended two journalists, Ed Moloney and ex-IRA volunteer Anthony McIntyre, compiled an oral history of the Troubles called "The Belfast Project," in which Republican and Unionist militants told their secret, bloody stories. The agreement was that these interviews — part of a project at Boston College — would be kept confidential until their deaths.
	Then the British government petitioned the U.S. Department of Justice to turn over these tapes. Under the existing treaties, the request was ultimately upheld by the federal courts.
	One former IRA member named Brendan Hughes — who'd had a major falling-out with Adams over the conditions of the peace talks — claims that Adams ordered the murder of Jean McConville.
	Two years after Hughes' 2008 death, Moloney and McIntyre wrote a book and produced a documentary called "Voices from the Grave," based in part on Hughes' interview. Another former IRA woman named Dolours Price, who'd also had a political split with Adams, claimed she and the Sinn Féin leader were both involved in the McConville killing.
	"While I have never disassociated myself from the IRA, and I never will," Adams has said, "I am innocent of any part of the abduction, killing or burial of Mrs. McConville."
	Although these allegations have been public for over five years, Adams was never arrested for the Jean McConville killing.
	Until now.
	Until a year after Dolours Price died.
	And only now, three weeks before the Irish elections in which Sinn Féin is surging North and South, does the Police Service of Northern Ireland arrest, detain, and ask for a rare extension to consider charging Adams in the McConville killing.
	"Waiting until three weeks before the elections shows this to be a nakedly political arrest," says Rita O'Hare, general secretary of Sinn Féin, visiting New York last week. "Gerry Adams has denied any connection to the Jean McConville killing. None of these charges can stand up in court. You can't cross examine Brendan Hughes or Dolours Price because they are dead. They ask for another 48 hours just to drag out the smear, to cause maximum political damage to Sinn Féin before the elections."
	O'Hare, who was once shot and wounded by British soldiers in Belfast, also points out that there have been 16 investigations by the Police Service of Northern Ireland resulting from the Boston College tapes and only two arrests, both from the Republican side of the conflict.
	"The days of the Orange Order are long gone and never to return but there are some Dark Side elements in the Northern Ireland political and law enforcement worlds who insist on living in the past," she says. "Their main objective here is to damage Gerry Adams and Sinn Féin before the elections."
	We'll see if this "April Surprise" has worked or backfired in three weeks.
	We should know soon if Gerry Adams will be charged and tried for the murder of Jean McConville.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com