
	How bout dem Nets, huh?
	That was my line Monday morning to Brooklynites old and new about the amazin' Sunday victory against the Toronto Raptors. The win propelled "Brooook-lyyyyn" into the second round of the NBA playoffs against the Miami Heat, a team the Nets beat in all of their four games this season.
	Brooook-lyyyyn!
	I listened to the final minutes of the game on the Triborough Bridge between the Bronx and Queens on Sunday, gazing at distant Manhattan and screaming obscenities and cheers to the radio until the final nanosecond of the 1-point game.
	"Brooook-lyyyyn!" I shouted after Paul Pierce's rejection of the Raptors' ball. I realized that the bridge I was crossing symbolized the vacuum of my youth, when I had to travel from Brooklyn to the Bronx, Queens or Manhattan to see a professional sports game.
	Brooook-lyyyyn had been rejected for every sports franchise after the Dodgers lammed west in 1957.
	Until last year.
	Now the lucky new Brooklynites and the die-hard natives sometimes referred to as "leftovers," along with the fortunate kids on both sides of the proverbial tracks, get to root for the same home team wearing the perfect symbolic colors of black and white.
	Russ Salzberg, the gutsy, street-smart TV sports commentator who grew up in a Sheepshead Bay housing project, texted me after the Nets win: "Great for Brooook-lyyyyn. But just like Dem Bums of old, dey almost had us waitin' til next year. Whew!"
	John Smith, assistant baseball coach at Queens College, who grew up shooting hoops in Williamsburg, said, "It's always great to have a winning team in New York, but having a team from Brooklyn is special because I still don't think native Brooklynites have ever gotten over the Dodgers leaving. The Nets give Brooklynites something to call their own again."
	"It's unreal having Brooklyn in the second round of the NBA playoffs," said Stewart Gross of Accurate Insurance Brokers, an old-fashioned storefront insurance guy from Quentin Road. "Unreal! I love Brooklyn. Brooklyn loves the Nets."
	Mike Sullivan, manager of the storied Brennan  Carr roast beef restaurant at Avenue U, said, "Me and my kids are completely caught up in the Nets season. The kids went to the game they won the other day. It's just great that Brooklyn fathers and kids can root for the same team together."
	Tony (Paulie Walnuts) Sirico of "Sopranos" fame weighed in. "The Brooklyn Nets are a great team who fight to the last second like tough Brooklyn guys," he said. "The Barclays Center is great for Brooklyn and the wounded warriors of Iraq and Afghanistan (which the arena supported). What more can I say, but go Brooook-lyyyyn, bada-bing."
	The Nets victory also proved that this arena, despite the protests and multiple lawsuits, helped change Brooklyn forever for the better.
	At a writers conference in New Orleans 20 years ago, I met Robbie Robertson of The Band and told him that he probably didn't remember the gig, but that I'd seen his group play at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in the mid-1970s.
	"Remember it?" he asked. "Never forget it! The cabbie who drove the band over the Manhattan Bridge didn't even slow down as we sped up Flatbush Ave. We screamed and braced ourselves as he crashed smack into the back of a van stopped for a red light. The cabbie fell asleep at the wheel. We raced out the backdoors, happy to be alive. The cabbie staggered up to us, bleeding, stoned, like nothing happened, asking for the fare. We paid. Then we went on stage. That was my introduction to rock 'n' roll in Brooklyn, man."
	Today, in its second year, Barclays Center is the top music venue in the world. And home of the Brooklyn Nets.
	"If the Nets beat Miami, I'll treat you to Peter Luger's," writes Dr. Danny Ricciardi.
	In Brooook-lyyyyn!