
	Affordable housing.
	That's the biggest issue in the city right now. The Daily News reported that rents have soared 75% in the past 12 Bloomberg years while median income has declined.
	Mayor de Blasio is set to unveil his plan to add 200,000 units of new affordable housing over 10 years. More than universal prekindergarten, stop-and-frisk and carriage horses, this issue will define the de Blasio years. Will this progressive mayor from Brooklyn be able to provide housing to struggling working-class families in this city of haves and have-nots?
	Let's start with one have-not family.
	In January, I wrote about a young couple, Jayson Romero, 22, and Shaquka Ingram, 28, from Brooklyn. I met them on a freezing day as they pushed their baby son, Jaybeon, in a stroller out of the city's homeless intake center, known as PATH (Prevention Assistance and Temporary Housing), at 151 E. 151st St. in the South Bronx.
	They said they'd wound up homeless after their Brownsville tenement was condemned by the city for multiple violations.
	Without a grubstake of a month's rent and a month's security deposit for a new apartment, they turned to the city's homeless system, which is bursting with a record 60,000 clients, more than 20,000 of them children, refugees from gentrification, joblessness and indifference, the most shameful legacy of the Bloomberg years.
	The shelter system requires that you report to the intake center each morning and wait hours to be assigned a shelter anywhere in the five boroughs by nightfall.
	"So even if you wanna work, which I really, really do, they don't give you the time to go look for work," Romero told me in January. "I work construction. I get day laborer jobs. You have to be out early to get them. But the city insists you be here if you want to sleep in the same shelter as your family."
	Ingram also wanted to work, hoping she could get a night shift so one parent could always care for the baby.
	The morning their story appeared, I received a text from Teddy Atlas, the boxing guru who runs the single best grass-roots charity in New York City, the Dr. Theodore Atlas Foundation: "Tell that family to call Sharon Curry at the Atlas Foundation and we will give them the money to rent an apartment and the security and then they can get jobs and pay going forward. Thanks, Teddy."
	I connected the couple with Curry.
	"We have been trying to get this lovely family an apartment since," Curry said Wednesday. "Shaquka doesn't want an apartment over $1,000 a month. They want a rent they can afford. Their first stumbling block was no credit history. So we offered landlords two or three months; security."
	Most landlords still declined this offer in the "new Brooklyn." Especially in a city where 400,000 affordable apartments have vanished in the past decade.
	"Plus the family couldn't search for apartments while in the daily shelter system," said Curry. "So we started calling Realtors and searching the Internet, Craigslist and places like that. Once we got a landlord to waive the credit check in lieu of more security, they demanded three consecutive pay stubs."
	But Jayson does day labor, which doesn't give steady weekly pay stubs.
	"And Shaquka was enrolled in a certified nursing assistance training program," Curry say. "But PATH requires you attend daily meetings, which interfered with her job training. It's an insane Catch-22. You need job training to get a good job to escape the homeless system. But the homeless system prevents you from going for job training and from working."
	"Finally, Shaquka finished her training, and this week she'll get her third straight pay stub," says Curry.
	Even with the Atlas Foundation's help, it's taken four months for this struggling family to become eligible to rent a home in New York City. They should close the deal on an apartment this week.
	"This is a lovely family that wants to work," says Curry. "They want to raise their child right in a home of their own. Something's wrong when the system that is supposed to help them gets in their way of finding a home."
	dhamill@nydailynews.com