I blogged Friday afternoon about the challenge of stray dogs in Dallas, noting that I'm working to come up with an effective strategy that I could pitch to my Editorial colleagues as a 2015 crusade for our pages. I heard from lots of readers, which is much appreciated.There's just something about our pets that causes nearly all of us to want to do something to help. I was reminded about that "something" when I read this weekend story about the faithful dog in San Angelo who, when he saw his human being loaded into an ambulance, jumped on the running board and traveled 20 miles, clinging to the side of the ambulance, to stay at his owner's side. (This story has a happy ending.)But here's another story involving dogs that doesn't — this one happened in Dallas over the weekend:Our beloved Kitty was attacked and killed in our [Dallas] neighbor's fenced back yard this afternoon, by two large dogs that somehow got under the fence. We are heartbroken, and heading to my mother's farm in Southeast Texas to bury him.Our neighbor saw the mauling and tried to intervene, but Kitty didn't survive.So back to my question of Friday — what to do about dogs gone wild?I hope you'll go back and read my original post if you missed it Friday afternoon. My core concern involves the lack of education (aren't little puppies cute?) and the prevalence of "old thinking" (a big dog with big testicles will keep my property safe) that makes this problem so hard to knock out.Many residents among us seem to think that spay/neuter is simply an inconvenience and/or it's cool to have the biggest, meanest dog on the block.Lots of readers responded, especially on Facebook. Here's some of what they offered:- One referred me to this ASPCA website as the gold standard for effectively dealing with the problem. I will spend some time looking at this and contrasting it with what Dallas Animal Services is doing. Here's the reader's take: What's clear is the catch and kill approach at DAS isn't working. The periodic 'roundups,' during which DAS captures all the stray dogs and kills them, is a vicious merry-go-round, because these families get more pets and the cycle begins again.- One reader gave a note of approval to my original idea about educating the young. But she asked, what about the "here and now?" She continues, "I've read that there are parts of the country that have shortages of adoptable animals and there are flights of animals taken from overpopulated homeless animal areas of the country (us) to underpopulated adoptable animal areas. Perhaps some DMN orchestrated program to make that happen here?"Anybody aware of areas that actually are seeking more adoptable animals?- Another referred me to two programs already in existence — Society for Companion Animals in Dallas and another group in Flower Mound. (No name provided for the Flower Mound operation.) This commenter said: "These are programs run by volunteers and have nothing to do with the city. Hundreds of stray dogs remain on Dallas streets - hungry, injured, running in packs, diseased - - and making more to suffer the same fate as I type."- Another local group that received some praise is Duck Team 6, which works to reduce the Dallas street dog population through capture, placement and outreach.- This is a good suggestion too: "Is it possible to get churches involved?"- Another reader wrote: "I see at least 2 to 3 homeless dogs every time I leave my house — some alive, some dead. I think educating kids and adults about animals is worthwhile, but it's a problem that's going to require funding, personnel and spending political capital. I know it's a hard idea to stomach, and I'll probably get grief for it, but a large scale euthanasia program will at least save future generations of dogs from suffering. There's not really a TNR [trap-neuter-return] option.- Do we make the "surrendering pets" option too easy? Do we need to add or increase fees?-  To effectively address the problem, we need to figure out how many neglected pets become strays and end up as packs or colonies. In an urban environment it's a complex cycle from domesticated to undomesticated.- How about "Pet Camp" for kids during summer months? Could partner with rescue groups/community centers and go through the whole array of issues on the topic of taking care of animals- hands-on training with walking, grooming, playing, feeding, etc. (cats/dogs provided). Introduce population control, of course, as one aspect of care.- A list of myths and facts might be interesting.- Finally, thanks, Ken Duble, for trying to get specific answers to the problems in the comments section on my original blog post.That's it for now; keep the constructive ideas coming! And please share. Particularly those of you who live in neighborhoods where you experience these realities can be most helpful in finding a solution — or at least a better strategy.