Here's the second part of the interview with two dance music artists who are among my favourites  at present, Benoit  Sergio.This time around Benoit answers the very same questions his partner Sergio answered. And, again, the answers prove to be insightful and interesting - as you might expect from the twosome.Firstly, please give a brief introduction to yourself for people who may not be familiar with you.I was born in Paris, France. I moved to the U.S. 9 years ago and live now in Washington D.C.Which artists really influenced your early love for music?

I would say the Beatles at first, and Madonna; but also probably all the artists who made the soundtracks for TV animes and series in the late 70s and early 80s. Add all the pop music I was exposed to in the early 80s in public places, and some video game soundtracks... You got it.As a child did you possess any musical ability? (Did you play instruments etc..)I didn't have any music ability (gift) but I've always liked to experiment with melodies and sounds. I learned guitar for few years as a teenager (never really took off) and one of my music teacher introduced me to expanders and Cubase. This is when it all started for me.When did you start to believe you were onto something worthwhile with your music?There are few tracks that I made during my early experiments with electronic music that I still cherish but I never thought of them being released one day. Today, I hear positive feedback from other artists, friends or fans about our tracks so I learned to believe more and more in what we do. It's a very recent "feeling", if any.Can you remember any of your early experiments with music, ones that didn't make the grade... and can you describe any in particular that might embarrass you a little now?There was a time where I composed songs on Atari. I remember particularly composing a kind of Viking "bourrée" with my childhood friend; great but probably a good opportunity for embarrassment.Like a first kiss, no one forgets the first record they bought. Tell me about your experience of both of these important moments.Bach's Toccata. I can't remember the orchestra nor the conductor though. I wish it had been more a Wendy Carlos take on it but that's okay.What's the ethos/ideology behind Benoit  Sergio?We never really set an ethos for ourselves. If I had to give it a shot, may be "Anything goes"? Because it's important to stay open when you make music: you never know where you will end up. It also represents the fit-it-all policy that we have sometimes with our sound. And it has this nonchalance to it, the "tongue-in-cheek" aspect of some of our lyrics ...Name 5 elements that make a great song.Melody (hooks).
Groove.
Sound.
Complexity disguised in simplicity.
"Faster but slower".At what point do you decide that a song is finished?When we're about to blow a fuse. We're both ardant self-critics and perfectionists too - this can quickly transform into deep neurosis...How do you feel about your music being described as 'underground pop'?It's fine. I honestly don't think genres are very defined these days. The thing with our tracks is they can also differ quite a lot...When performing what do you look for in the reaction of an audience that tells you you're doing a good job?People dancing?What's been your best ever clubbing experience: 1) As a performer? and 2) As a customer?As a performer, I'm thinking the Electric Pickle in Miami. We had a great night at Pygmalion too, a bar/club in Dublin. An amazing club is also Cityfox. Iconic.
As a customer, I think the Pulp or Rex Club, both in Paris.If you could work with any musical legend from the past who would it be?Probably Stevie Wonder. He combines amazing composition and performing skills, and has a love for synthesizers. His cover of Papa Was A Rolling Stone on a talk box is ridiculous.Your song Boy Trouble talks about a girl with legs like a Ferrari, what does such a lady look like?A woman with strong calves and generous hips.Describe the creative process when you're in the studio - what do you bring to the music production process?A little bit of everything.Outside of music, what's your favourite pastime?I like walking and biking, or just observing things. I don't have much time for other pastimes these days though...Which single piece of music or which single artist/band has had the strongest influence on your life?I will go with the most obvious: Daft Punk. Their rise coincided with me buying my first sampler. This has definitively changed my life.Do you ever feel intimidated by a previous release?... i.e. "How can we do better than Let Me Count Ways?"Or "What I've Lost" ...  The honest answer would be yes. You always want to do better, for your fans and for yourself. But I think it is important to keep playfulness in the process; to keep a distance from your own pedigree and from what people expect from you. The quest for the next big track or the next big hook can become an unhealthy pursuit. You don't want to rush in the studio and be like "all right I have to do better than this one now". There are so many directions for "better" anyhow... you would probably end up taking the not-so-great one, the obvious one.Complete the sentence, without Sergio I would be......A bard lost in the forest of life.The 'Covers EP' which features Daft Punk's electronic pop sensation 'Around The World' and goddess of 80s soul Sade's 'Sweetest Taboo' , sculpted by Benoit  Sergio respectively is available now from www.doublestandardrecords.com.