I often wonder what life on the road as a DJ is like, from what I can gather it's not always as glamorous as one might imagine. Ok, so they get to travel the world playing the music they love to thousands of people every week - but, in reality despite the obvious plus points there's the down points too - constant tiredness, traveling from one airport to another to another, never really seeing much of the city you're playing in. Hardly the end of the world but, still, it's not all one big party. To illustrate their life on the road as DJs, German duo Pan-Pot (Tassilo Ippenberger and Thomas Benedix) have released an hour-long DVD based using footage from their various gigs. I spoke to them about the new film...Who came up with the idea of making an 'on-the-road' film?Thomas: That was actually Anja Schneider's idea. With every Mobilee Back To Back compilation the artist who mixes it does something special and because we always make short tour videos, she thought it would be a good idea to bring this to another level and include a DVD with the compilation.Why did you decide to make it? Was there a firm plan behind what you wanted to portray?Tassilo: At first we had doubts about doing this because making a film is such a different thing and sounded very big (too big) to us at first. But they managed to convince us and we got more and more into the project. It helped that Sebastian Radlmeier, the director, is also a good friend of ours and we knew we could trust him one hundred percent.Thomas: There was a plan and we kind of knew what we wanted to show and put into the movie. We wanted to show what Pan-Pot is all about, where we come from and what we do. All the rest in terms of story line was up to Sebastian, we did not even see the movie or know what exactly he would put in there until is was finished.How did you go about hiring the cameraman and working out the overall feel of the movie?Thomas: We were lucky because Sebastian was also the camera man and we used some of the tour footage we'd already shot ourselves. It was not the intention to get amazing or dramatic shots, which usually come across a little bit self-important in documentaries about artist as they always show the best and biggest parts. Rather than that Sebastian showed us as we are so there are lots of - as we think - funny scenes in there and also parts which show us being quite nervous, like wew ere before our first live gig for Cocoon at Amnesia, Ibiza.Tassilo: The overall feel is very down to earth. The film should not be sensationalist but a nice documentary about us, with realistic scenes and emotion and we are very happy with the result!Did you have any problems getting it together? Tassilo: Fortunately not at all. At the end we had way more footage than we every could have used including great artists such as Slam or Dubfire, who spoke about how they see us. It was hard work though getting all of that material together and this was only possible with a great team working on the project.Thomas: With all of that footage we could easily make another second part. But Sebastian really used the best footage.How easy was it to remain 'natural' while you had a cameraman filming you in action? Tassilo: We are that not good actors so the best idea was always to stay natural. Of course you try to present your positive side but in the end there were so many cameras in front of our face we got used to ignoring them.Do you think the film is an accurate portrayal of life on the road as a DJ?Tassilo: Yes, totally, especially as it shows all parts of what we do  and not only of what you maybe would want people to see so that you  look super great. Of course within a 60-minute movie you have to decide  which clips to use and what stories to tell, so we have not been able to  show everything that could have been possible.Thomas: But it gives a great insight or our lives and we wanted to  limit the film to 60 minutes so it stays interesting and doesn't bore  people with too many details. We didn't want them to end up saying: "Oh,  another airport, another soundcheck, another city... great."Were there any scenes you had to cut out? And, if yes, why were they cut? Thomas: We nearly got arrested at the airport because we had our camera rolling and put it on the belt, which goes through the baggage scanning thing. We filmed the security officer and he didn't like that, but it's in the movie.Tassilo: We were filming a new product at Native Instruments at a time where it was not announced and had to cut out some material that showed too much of it.OUTTAKESWhat's the best thing about touring? And the worst?Tassilo: The best thing is seeing different cities, cultures, great people and being at nice parties, of course. With some promoters we also consider them to be friends of ours so we always look forward to seeing them and having fun.Thomas: Collecting miles is also great though I used to be afraid of flying. So much so that an airplane once stopped its take off and left me at the airport because I was freaking out. But I was younger then and am happy that I forced myself to overcome this fear, otherwise it would have limited our job a lot. The worst thing is always getting up in the morning with hardly no sleep and going to the airport.How does it feel seeing yourselves on the big screen?Thomas: It is a little strange. Especially at our premiere in Berlin when we watched it on a big screen for the first time ever. Definitively a big difference between this and seeing our tour clips, which we usually post on YouTube. But fun!

What are you guys up to over the coming months? Tassilo: We are already working very hard on our next album, so all of our focus is on making music and spending time in the studio right now.Thomas: At least when the Playstation and FIFA world soccer championship doesn't get in our way!Mobilee Back To Back Vol.6 presented by Pan-Pot is out now pick it up HERE. 