Late last year I became familiar with a DJ named Seth Troxler. Through my teen-like infatuation with the Detroit-born techno demi-God I came to discover a whole new world of musicians and artists who I'd never known about until I was introduced to them through Seth's sets.One of the standout acts is Benoit  Sergio, a duo who captivated me with the hilarious anthem Walk  Talk - with an ultra-catchy chorus that quips 'My baby does K all day'.Through my chats with Sergio, the man behind the vocals on their tracks, we decided it would be interesting to interview the duo separately - but using the same questions, similar to the TV game show Mr  Mrs.So here's the first part of the interview featuring Sergio. Look out for Benoit's part very soon...Firstly, please give a brief introduction to yourself for people who may not be familiar with you.I work on dance music and live in Berlin. I moved there last summer, after quitting my job as an English teacher in [Washington] DC. Benoit  Sergio is my main music project. I've also released with Ryan Crosson as Birds Souls and with Bruno Pronsato as NDF. And I released a few things a few years ago as Sergio Giorgini when I first started working on dance music. For the most part I hate that old stuff and wish I'd never put it out into the world.Which artists really influenced your early love for music?

I was influenced by my mom's taste up until, say, age ten - Leonard Cohen, Beach Boys, Simon and Garfunkel. Then I was into rap and a bit of smooth RnB until my early teenage years - Eazy-E, New Edition, etc. Then as a teenager, I got into popular arena rock - Smashing Pumpkins, Nirvana. I didn't really start looking for more mature and difficult music until college.

Was there one particular moment when you decided that making music was to become your path in life?My dad was diagnosed with cancer in September of 2009. I decided at that point to quit my job and pursue music. Living life, following dreams, etc., became both more precious and pressing after that news.

When did you start to believe you were onto something worthwhile with your music?I made this jam a few years ago called 'Ten Inch' which I still think has some beautiful flourishes. Wolf+Lamb put it out when they were still a digital label. Despite its many flaws, there's something magical to that track.Like a first kiss, no one forgets the first record they bought. Tell me about your experience of both of these important moments.Bobby Brown's 'Don't Be Cruel.' Still amazing. I would play that cassette on my walkman in bed at night, listening to 'Tender Roni', wishing I had a Tender Roni. The first Tender Roni I kissed was a girl from Iowa near some train tracks on a Friday night.How much influence does what's happening in the world (good or bad) have on your music?If by the world you mean, say, the world of politics, then I don't think there's much influence on the music at all. I always cringe at overtly political art. If by the world you mean the world of music and literature, then yes: I'm always plagiarizing from that world.Name five elements that make a great song.1. Soft, pillowy cloud-like sounds.
2. A hook that is immediately satisfying but not cloying.
3. Simplicity in the music.
4. Moral ambiguity in the words.
5. Energy.Vocals seem to be an important element in every Benoit  Sergio song, who writes the lyrics and what inspires them?I write the lyrics. Heart-break, poems by bitter 20th century men and other pop-songs inspire them. I like catchy synth hooks and I like lines to be remembered.

How do you feel about your music being described as 'underground pop'?Underground pop sounds good but, like most categories, I don't think it applies uniformly to our music. For one, I don't know where the underground is really. And I don't know what is pop about a track like 'Where The Freaks Have No Name' or 'Let Me Count The Ways.' Those are dance jams for clubs or festivals. 'What I've Lost' - maybe underground pop. I am always wondering if we are always just thinking up new ways to describe the same old thing.Artiss YouTube Embed: The YouTube ID of CV3Z_fh64M0 is invalid.What's so good about Berlin that so many musicians have relocated there in recent years?Berlin is a permissive city and permissiveness leads to excess and excess attracts artists - at least the good ones.

When performing live what do you look for in the reaction of an audience that tells you you're doing a good job?You feel that you're the center of attention - it's like when I used to teach and all the kids were watching me rather than looking out the window. It's a very clear, distinct, unmistakable phenomenon. Teaching and performing are very similar - you know when you're on and when you're off in the classroom and on the stage.Would you ever consider working on production for really mainstream acts like Lady Gaga or Britney Spears?If I respected and enjoyed the song, of course. 'I'm A Slave 4 U' would be amazing to remix. I would love to remix some Billy Joel, too.What's been your best ever clubbing experience: 1) As a performer? and 2) As a customer?1) I loved playing at Pygmalion in Dublin - small, packed, crazed. Also Mint in Leeds. The UK in general. Electric Pickle in Miami.
2) As a customer, I would say the most meaningful experience was seeing Ricardo Villalobos in his prime at CDV in the summer of 2006 during Love Parade weekend. That pushed me toward a new way of life. Herbert at Mutek in Montreal in 2004 was incredible, too.If you could work with any musical legend from the past who would it be?Brian Eno, except he is still from the future.The break in 'Mother Whale Eyeless' at around the two-minute mark is the most ecstatic, wonderful minute in pop history for me and I've listened to it thousands of times. He can make every kind of music. He's the great genius of his generation... and ours.On your song Boy Trouble, you sing about a girl with legs like a Ferrari - what does such a lady look like?Usually she's the offspring of some form of interracial desire.Describe the creative process when you're in the studio - what do you bring to the music production process?Self-loathing. If you don't hate most of what you produce, then you shouldn't produce.Outside of music, what's your favourite pastime?Reading biographies of literary and philosophical giants. Walking around, wishing I would never die.Do you ever feel intimidated by a previous release? I.e. "How can we do better than 'Let Me Count Ways'?"No. Thankfully. That's a great question, though.Complete the sentence, without Benoit I would be...... Eating lunch at some private school's refectory with teenage boys, grading confused essays, wishing I were doing what I'm doing now.Principles/Everybody by Benoit  Sergio, on DFA Records, is available to purchase now on Beatport. 