I knew nothing of the Mexican house scene until discovering their BPM Festival, which takes place between late December and early January every year. Still, finding out about the festival did little to enlighten me about the music and it wasn't until interviewing Richy Ahmed and he told me about a duo named Climbers that I really began to learn more about the thriving house scene. There seems to be a whole host of talented producers and DJs coming out of Mexico - Miguel Puente, Sishi Rosch and Louie Fresco to name but a few. After checking out Climbers and their music I decided to get in touch with them and find out more...How did you get into DJing/producing?Jay Blakk: I started DJing after Kiko Deal (K.D.) and myself went to a rave and I fell in love with the music, the people and especially the vibe that the DJ was spreading all over the place, from that day I got hooked. In terms of producing I started because I was very curious about it. I didn't have any direction, I was really just trying to learn how to make sounds that are in my head (which I'm still learning to do everyday).What was the house scene in Mexico/your town like when you were younger?K.D: Well when we started there was a really closed, almost in the shadows, scene where it was not easy to know where the parties were but they always attracted great committed people and DJs.Jay Blakk: Also one of the things I remember the most is that I got the opportunity to spin at a friend's house and they such great times because I started playing with nobody around and all of the sudden, after some months, the word got out and I started playing for such lovely people who were into it. In a short time that became the best learning experience for me.How would describe the Climbers' sound? And how much influence do you think Mexican lifestyle/culture has on the music you make? K.D: Well the sound I think is really melodic, but also strong on every sound you hear, and committed to having fun.Jay Blakk: Well the biggest influence we think is actually to just chat with people from the scene here, and even though the years have past to stay committed to always learn and keep growing musically... it's a must in this city. Cathy Dennis- Touch me (Climbers enjoy your time in life edit) by ClimbersHow long have you been working together now?Both: Well this April it will be our first year together making music, and to tell you the truth since the first day that we got together we really loved the way things were flowing, because we support each other on every decision to finalise a track. So we are proud of each track we have made, some we like more than others, but for each track to have its own time and respect is all we can ask for.You have releases forthcoming on some well-known labels already - do you feel any increased pressure to make good music? K.D: Well actually something really funny is that when we started this project we did it because we are very close friends, so whenever any of us fell pressure we rely on the other to put everything in perspective and keep doing this because we love that feeling of releasing everything in our heads and putting a lot of vibe on it.Kiko's in a band... Does that have any affect on the music that you guys produce as Climbers? Will he put some vocals down on a Climbers track one day?Jay Blakk: His band is called  Autocinema. I think from my point of view, the music he does in the band does not effect our project. I think it gives a plus to the fact that it keeps the groove going on, and actually we recently finished a track where Kiko sang but there is more to come.And Jay, you're a lawyer, too. Was is always your dream to be a musician?
Jay: Well for me I have always wanted to be part of something where I could integrate my way of thinking and helping people with their problems, and I don't see myself as a musician but rather than a curious person who loves to tweak around and make sounds that really create a good track. But yes it's really cool to know I can do both. Raffa L- Hot for you (Climbers Remix) preview (Release date.- 7th of March by ClimbersWhat's the house scene like in Mexico at the moment? Jay: The house scene in Mexico is at its best, with not only strong musicians and great music all around, but great human beings and with a strong commitment to their music.Which Mexican artists should we be checking out?Both: Well of course our great friend Louie Fresco because he is a great dude who has always supported us, for which we will always be grateful. Also Bastard Love, Metrika, Damian Uzabiaga, Nobody Knows, Gog, Robbie Akbal and Muan, and so many others, but stay tuned to "El Cartel".

Which other producers are you feeling at the moment? Both: On the international side of things we can say that Tone of Arc is a great artist and we loved his performance at BPM, also Maceo Plex, Miguel Campbell, Fur Coat...Can you tell me about your experience of the BPM Festival this year?
Both: Well for us it was such an incredible experience because we got to meet people who we just got mad respect for, and the crowd is overwhelming because they are up to any kind of sound and any kind of mood you put in front of them. We loved the party where My Favorite Robot played, also where Droog played at La Santanera and one that blew us away was Lee Burridge back-2-back with Matthew Dekay, off the hook at Mamitas!Apart from the clubs etc. what other attractions would you recommend to people visiting Mexico for the first time? Both: Well here in Mexicali, our first recommendation is don't come in the summer unless you like to feel what it's like to be on the streets at 120 degrees fahrenheit. But in general in Mexico, visit the pyramids a must, and always eat tacos al pastor.What do you have lined up for 2012? What's happening with Mexa Records? K.D: Well right now we have released our first remix of Hot For You for Raffa FL (on Electronique), and then we have a remix for Blond:Ish on Noir2, then a remix for Map Of The World for Nurvous and a remix we did for Dexter Kane on Lower East. After that we have our first EP on Culprit LA, around April time, and then an EP with Nurvous Records. So it will be good times.Jay Blakk: For Mexa we will be releasing in April our first EP with the incredible Lee Foss and it comes with a remix by Richy Ahmed that will have everybody dancing big time, after that we have from a great talent Lee M Kelsall with such amazing vocals and then Matt Fear, an incredible dude who we believe will make big waves this year.For more information on Climbers visit their Facebook page HERE and check out this exclusive new mix from them, which you can download and listen to below. Climbers - Gratitude Mixtape (Independent) by Marcus_Barnes