Full of energy in terms of the music and delivery of the MCs within grime, it was certainly an exciting movement in the early noughties. One of the producers who really stood out for me during this time was Davinche who was a fellow south-east Londoner, mainly working with the Essentials crew. His tracks had a degree of musicality and melody that meant they would always stick in your mind (for instance, Kano's debut single P's  Q's). In the years since then, grime has faded away a little, but Davinche has continued to make music and has an exciting album project in the pipeline.Firstly, was it always a dream of yours to make music?I remember being a child and saying I wanted to be a writer. I'd suppose at the time I meant writer of words, stories, maybe poems. Add music to that a few years later and you could probably say that it was an uncannily accurate thought. Evidently, words are powerful.Indeed. So it's a bit of a standard question, but which musicians/songs inspired you as a youngster?I always find this a difficult question to answer only because there were so many different ones and unless I tell you all, I'm not giving as well-rounded an answer as I'd like to. I grew up in a music orientated household. I remember my dad playing the Kenny G version of a song from the Tony Braxton album my mum had been playing the day before. And my sisters playing everything from Karyn White's Superwoman to Janet Jackson's Control. A lot of music. My dad taught me that there is soul in each genre. So I learned to keep an open and appreciative mind when dealing with music.How did you first get involved with making music?A brilliant teacher in my school, Mr Davidson, taught me about Cubase. I thought "I can do that". Seems I'm still doing that all these years later.What kind of music was it that you were making when you first started?I was a Craig David (Born To Do It era) fan. I was essentially trying to be that [laughs]. I have a song on my album called Impervious, produced with Mark Hill formerly of the Artful Dodger. I don't think he knows quite how much of a fan I really am.I'm most familiar with your grime stuff - when did you get involved with that?I was the engineer and producer in a studio Jammer (formerly of N.A.S.T.Y Crew) used to use. He gave me a foot in the door. I wedged it open - and to be honest, I ain't leavin.Your style was always a lot more 'musical' than the typical kind of grime instrumental, was that intentional?My whole thing [for me] is that music has to translate. Whoever the listener is, should appreciate a hook, or melody, or message, even if it isn't their preferred genre. I also try to bring something to the table when I work with artists or just when I make music. Something of me. So I just tried to bring structure to the songs I made. Chord progressions I like. Hooks that make it catchy, that kind of thing.I think that approach worked well. Who were your favourite grime MCs to work with?Essentials. I worked with most of the scene. But nothing is as special as coming home and working with your own team the people you understand.How about producer-wise, which grime producers did you really respect or see as competition?Terror Danjah's songs were and still are dope. Wookie and Sticky were inspirations. Wiley was brilliant... still is. Jammer taught me a lot personally. Rapid from Ruff Sqwad is a beast! There's so many of us.Do you still listen to/make grime music now?I just make music that I love. When I first got into music I was surrounded by a lot of grime and so many different crews. But I have so many different musical influences and, as I've grown, my musical style has developed. Grime will always be a huge passion of mine and it has made me into who I am today. I'd like to note that most of what I make now has the unmistakable impact that grime taught me to create. Even the softer stuff is still hard.What happened to The Essentials Crew? Do you still see them?Yeah, we are brothers. We all started working together when we were quite young and fresh in the music game so it's almost like we've grown up together. Everyone's doing their own thing now but we're still really cool with each other and support each other as much as we can. Look out for an artist called DruBlu, managed by Remerdee from Essentials - I have some tracks on his project, very talented rapper. Also Rest In Peace N.E.What have you been up to since moving on from grime?I've definitely not moved on from grime. I've evolved the sound so it can now cross genres. I've been in studio with loads of grime artists, as well as artists from genres people may have not expected. And I'm featuring a lot on my own tracks these days, both singing and rapping, you'll hear a lot of that on my album. It's been a really natural progression for me and allows me to voice my opinion a lot more through my own music.Who have you been working with recently?At the moment it's full steam ahead for my album. I've been waiting for a long time to put this out and so I had to get it perfect. I'm steadily coming to the conclusion perfection is a myth though. When is a song truly finished? I do love it as it is though.What kind of styles are on the album? Does the album have a theme?I think that a lot of people will be surprised when they hear my album. It's called Open Minded and that's what I want people to be when they listen to it. The songs are all a hybrid of genres, some have rock mixed with dance, grime and RnB etc... The album has got features on it from Etta Bond and Wretch 32, to Cleo Sol, Dru Blu and Kano. I can't wait to put it out and to come out as an artist on my tracks as well as just producing the music. For instance, on the album there's a track that I co-produced with Artful Dodgers' Mark Hill, which I am singing on. I got my Craig David moment eventually [laughs].Who/what is inspiring you musically at the moment?Brace yourself for a cliche! So many wonderful artists aro.... [laughs] No. I'm inspired by the artists I work with. I start my sessions by asking the artist "What do you want to say to the world?". The answer to this creates visuals and music in my mind. Inspiration starts from there, it's always been that way.What are your hopes for the future in terms of your musical career?I think Rodney Jerkins, Pharrell, Babyface, Dallas Austin, teddy Riley, Timbaland, Harvey Mason and quite a few more have done what I want to do. I want to contribute musically to an artist's journey. Not just do the "filler" songs, so consistency is important to me. That's my journey.To check out more of Davinche's music go to Soundcloud.com/davinche. His album Open Minded is released May 28 on Dirty Canvas preceded by new single Takeover on May 21. 