Over the bank holiday weekend at the beginning of April there will be big weekend-long party happening in the Midlands that everyone has been raving about for months. Ibiza's world-famous party promoters Circo Loco are descending on Birmingham for two days and nights of musical mayhem, featuring one of the biggest line-ups yet seen in the UK - including Jamie Jones (pictured) and dozens more.Now Birmingham isn't somewhere that has featured on the clubbing map for a while, but the Circo Loco event has put it firmly back there and with a huge new club called Arena playing a big part in proceedings I decided to get in touch with Lee McDonald, one of the promoters involved in the event, to get the lowdown on what's happening in Brum...Tell me a bit about yourself and your background.I have been promoting parties for over 10 years and spent several summers in Ibiza, I guess the island was my university. In 2006 Below was formed, it was a Sunday daytime party playing deep house in Birmingham - a city that had been strangled by funky house and trance for too long. Below took place in The Rainbow and, as a result of a string of successful parties me and Adam Shelton (resident DJ and co-promoter), had the opportunity to buy the lease.Can you shed some light on Rainbow in terms of what it's like? The Rainbow is an old Victorian pub with a twist. Walk down the corridor and you enter a raw, quirky courtyard that houses about 400 ravers. Back in 2006 this was alfresco with tropical trees and local graffiti artists regularly changing the feel of the space with their work. In 2009 we had to build a soundproof roof due to one resident complaining. Despite the set back the venue still managed to hold its character and charm... Soul is something money can't pay for.And what about Arena? Can you explain a little about it and the plans for the future?The Arena is quite possibly the most unique space I have laid my eyes on... and believe me I'm always looking for new spaces! It has it the backdrop of Victorian viaducts... high walls, open alfresco space with a prominent stage. It was made for battle. It was right underneath our nose for years adjacent to The Rainbow Warehouse. Formerly a scaffold yard, we encouraged the owners to uproot and find a new home so we could pursue our dream to have parties in there.The line-up seems to be growing and growing, what can punters expect from the huge party weekend that's coming up? Maybe a few surprises?I will not disclose surprises [laughs].Fair enough. How's the house music scene in the midlands/Birmingham at the moment?Sure, the Birmingham scene is finally taking shape, there's several new clubs opening and adopting the deeper music policy. It seems the gap has been bridged between commercial and underground music finally. Local boy Adam Shelton is opening a new pre-bar very soon in Digbeth with Cloak and Dagger head honcho James Swinbourne, look out for that, it will tick a lot of boxes. Also restaurants and hotels seem to be popping up - the confirmation of high speed rail link too - it's all very exciting.And what about Birmingham's house music history? Who inspired you when you were starting out?I'm afraid I had to look out of Birmingham for my inspiration. Circo Loco of course massively influenced me and Adam Shelton and then Secretsundaze in London made us consider the Sunday thing in Birmingham both massive influences. Below in it's 7th year had helped change peoples attitudes toward the underground scene with lots of cool, exciting nights popping up playing a similar music policy. One example is FACE that is smashing it every Saturday in The RainbowAny up and coming Brummie talent we should be checking out?Yes. Ernest. Smak Pony, Lewis Oxley, Samu.l, Adam Shelton and of course Subb-An.What other parties have you got coming up over the next few months? Below will be releasing its six parties Saturday 7 April, so until then I'm afraid we cant say too much but it will be worth the wait.For more information go to www.facebook.com/circolocoarena.