It's been quite a year for 24-year-old producer and DJ Callum Wright AKA D/R/U/G/S. His debut 12″ Love/Lust was received with high praise and he's gone on to release another three-track single, via Moshi Moshi imprint Tender Age, entitled Connected. And it's a great set of tracks - having only been aware of him by name until recently I was pleasantly surprised by Callum's productions.Judging by his stage name I had been expecting some anxst-ridden, angry, noisy tunes when in fact he's made some really nice energetic dance music that has has a hint of the bleep era circa early 90s rave/techno. It's great. On top of his busy production schedule Cal, as his friends call him, has been out on the road touring and performing live - he recently supported the much-lauded German duo Digitalism when they were here in the UK. Naturally I wanted a chat with Cal, but sadly it was quite as in-depth as I wanted due to his hectic work schedule - however, he did spare some time to do me an exclusive mix, which definitely compensated for the lack of words, in my opinion. You can find the mix right below, and a few words from the man himself. Enjoy. Independent Mix by D/R/U/G/S by Marcus_BarnesSo, Cal, I know you're a busy man so this won't take too much of your time. First of all, tell me a bit about your mix for?The tracks that make up this mix come from different corners of the dance world - house, techno, deep house and so on. None of these labels particularly interest me or dictate my appreciation for the music or willingness to dance to it and, much like when I produce my own material, are not a concern when arranging a set.Nice one, and how's the past year been? Seems like you've had a good one... what's next?This year has been crazy for me personally, being able to perform at so many festivals and see my music reach a wider audience was a dream come true. Regarding the future, Connected, my second release was out November 28. Early next year we'll be taking the DJ show around the country and will hopefully be working towards an album. Connected by D/R/U/G/SCatch D/R/U/G/S playing live at Brixton Electric on December 17 and you can purchase the excellent Connected by clicking right HERE.