
	It might be 2013 in the real world, but in cable newsrooms it's still 1913.
	Take the case of the despicable Martin Bashir, aka Martin Basher. Only some kind of bizarre time warp could explain the white-glove treatment MSNBC afforded the practicing misogynist in their midst.
	It took MSNBC president Phil Griffin nearly three weeks to almost-act after the Basher spewed what might be the most hate-filled rant in the history of legit TV.
	Just in case you somehow missed it, Bashir, a half-baked blowhard and known back-stabber, said that Sarah Palin deserved a slave's punishment — having someone defecate in her mouth and urinate in her eyes — for saying our debt to China would enslave us.
	And when MSNBC finally did act, they took the coward's way out and allowed him to resign instead of throwing him out with the rest of the trash at that mess of a "news" network. This, mind you, a week after Griffin let raging loon Alec Baldwin quit as well.
	Question is, how did they hire the Basher in the first place, when his disrespect for women is legendary and his rep as a lousy journalist is hardly a secret.
	Once, while introducing his "20/20" colleague Juju Chang, Bashir said, "I'm happy to be in the midst of so many Asian babes. I'm happy that the podium covers me from the waist down." Then, "A speech should be like a dress on a beautiful woman — long enough to cover the important parts and short enough to keep your interest — like my colleague Juju's."
	ABC slapped him on the wrist with a suspension, and MSNBC hired him with open arms.
	And you, Bashir, are like a good suit on an ugly-brained man: Even Armani can't disguise the rot from the neck up.
	MARTIN BASHIR RESIGNS FROM MSNBC AFTER SARAH PALIN FLAP  
	But don't think MSNBC is alone when it comes to giving hot shot male honchos a wide berth even when they step over the ledge into incredibly offensive, sexual and scatological "humor" aimed at female politicians.
	In June, John Oliver, hosting "The Daily Show," said about Palin, "Just because I walked into a turd supermarket doesn't mean I have to buy anything."
	Glenn Beck twice on Fox News called Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-La.), a high-class hooker. "We know you're hookin' but you're just not cheap." Ugh.
	Then there's the bow-tied "intellectual" Tucker Carlson, who said three times on MSNBC, "When (Hillary Clinton) comes on television, I involuntarily cross my legs." Who thinks like this? Maybe someone who is such a loser than no one cares what happens when he crosses, or uncrosses, his legs.
	Like I said, 1913. This all reminds me of a plaque that used to hang in my Aunt Clara's kitchen that read: "The aheader I go, the behinder I get."
	QUACK QUACK
	Mayor Bloomberg gave a disturbing new meaning to the term "lame duck," last Sunday by ducking out on the scene of the horrific Metro-North derailment, then making a lame excuse for it.
	The soon-to-be not-mayor didn't rush back from his luxury life in Bermuda, nor in fact did he even stop playing golf after learning that four people lay dead and 75 injured.
	His reason for not rushing back on his private jet?
	MAYOR BLOOMBERG SPOTTED GOLFING IN BERMUDA DURING METRO-NORTH DERAILMENT 
	"I'm not a professional firefighter or police officer. Nothing I can do," he said. "All I can do is make sure that the right people from New York City, our police commissioner, our fire commissioner and emergency management commissioner are there."
	When asked about his whereabouts, the mayor sniffed, "You have a real question?" And that about sums up the arrogance of Mike's never-ending controversial third term.
	No, Bloomberg's presence couldn't have done anything to save those victims on the ground — but that's not the point. That would be like saying Rudy's presence at Ground Zero was irrelevant because people were still dead.
	JONESING FOR CHANGE
	The wondrously smart and serious Rashida Jones is feeling the heat — and the hate — for being anti-feminist. Why? Because, ironically enough, she had the cahones to take an uber-feminist stance.
	Jones called out popsters of the Miley/Nicki/Rihanna/Gaga bent for acting like singing sluts and making young girls think they need to look and act like two dollar hookers to be valid and valued. Critics fired back saying Jones was 100% wrong because pop fems Miley, Gaga, Riri and Nicki own their female sexuality.
	Really? Then why is Miley going around in penis panties? Why did Gaga wear one on the cover of "Q" magazine and why did Rihanna have a gold penis purse whose usefulness she demonstated to a London crowd? And let's not even talk about Nicki's d---ie, which she wore onstage.
	SMOKIN' (NOT) HOT
	The attempt to ban e-smokes from public places — including parks! — is hopefully the last of the nanny laws the current city council will use to annoy the hell out of us. Are they serious? Those "smokes" are vapor! I'm surprised those monitors of our lives haven't banned fake smoke from Broadway shows too. Luckily, nearly half of the joyless council members are term limited out and will be gone January first.
	CITY COUNCIL SEEKS BAN ON E-CIGARETTES IN PUBLIC PLACES AS HIGH-TECH SUCCESSOR TO SMOKING BAN
	This council, under Nana Mike, gave themselves the right to an extra term despite two separate votes against it. We also got parking in the middle of the streets, avenues that look like Chutes and Ladders games, pedestrian seating areas on the fringes of parks (because we all want to sit in the street instead of the park), attempts to ban or restrict large sugary sodas (but not large chemically sweetened sodas), salt, trans fat, styrofoam, outdoor smoking in parks, and now as a last gasp, they want to ban fake smokes, which were invented because real smokes were banned.
	Meantime, fake smokes are keeping people from real smokes. How many days until January 1 again?
	EXPRESS LINES
	Go figure: On the latest Kardashian Kris-tmas card, Bruce Jenner is trapped inside a glass closet begging to come ou ... RB Phone Home: Note to former glam golden girl Rebekah Brooks, on trial in the Murdoch phone hacking scandal: Just because you're now wearing clothes only Elizabeth II could love, topped with a head that looks like you knocked over Elizabeth I's wig closet, doesn't mean you're not Britain's top royal pain ... Not Walking Dead Or Alive: Last Sunday night, one-legged Hershel had his only head hacked off by the one-eyed governor, who then was stabbed by sling blade Michonne. Now that's entertainment!
	WHY ASTRONOMERS DON'T NAME KIDS
	An enormous new planet has just been discovered. It is 11 times bigger than Jupiter. Something like that deserves a big, important name to match — no? No. The biggest planet has just a number for a name: HD 106906, which sounds like a prison number — not a planet. The ancients were definitely much more creative.