Stretford Dogs Club is Andy Proctor, a Manchester-based DJ who has crept up over the last year or so with a consistent output of top class deep house mixes and an interesting year-long project which will culminate in an epic 24-hour long mix. After a six-year break from DJing while he promoted a night called Development in his hometown, and running a label by the same name, Andy returned to DJing and has made quite an impression so far. I tracked him down via Twitter and he kindly agreed to an interview and recorded an exclusive mix for me too, which you can find below. Independent Canine Mix by Stretford Dogs Club by Marcus_BarnesSo Andy, give me a brief description of who you are and what you're about. I'm a promoter/DJ from Manchester who goes by the name of Stretford Dogs Club. I used to promote an underground night called Development which we finished up this year after six long, hard years. I never played there though. DJing sat on the back burner while promoting Development, but about 18 months ago I started releasing online mixes under the guise of Stretford Dogs Club, and started to push myself through social media sites like Facebook. Twitter and, more importantly, Soundcloud.Obviously the name you use is slightly unusual, can you give me some background on that. The name itself came about quite simply really, I was living in Stretford at the time (in Manchester) and myself and my girlfriend were living with three dogs [One of Andy's dogs, Pebbles, features on his logo], it became a running joke amongst friends so I decided to use it as a DJ name.You seem to be doing pretty well at the moment with a lot of people picking up and sharing your mixes, to what would you credit your success?My name seems to intrigue people and attract them to my mixes, but obviously there's got to be some substance behind it and I guess they like what they hear. This year I decided to come up with a concept called A Day In A Dog's Life, which consists of 12 x 2-hour mixes all commencing from where the last one left off, so by the end of the year it creates one 24-hour mix. It's been a really good format to use, mainly because I think people like to tune in and listen to the next part in a kind of soap opera-type way. I'm up to part 11 now, which has just been released - part 10 had something like 5,000 listens. A DAY IN A DOGS LIFE  by Stretford Dogs ClubHow and when did you get into house music? And what are the early tracks that really defined what house is about for you personally?I've been into house music one way or another all my adult life. I was 16 when I first went to Back 2 Basics in 92. It kind of just hooks you in, I just love the music, the scene, the people. With regards to early tracks - I think anything on labels like Strictly Rhythm - anything by MAW [Masters At Work] like I Can't Get No Sleep, The Bounce, The Nervous track. I guess looking back now, I'd say anything by Larry Heard pretty much defines house for me - amazing producer and DJ.Based on your experience of house music so far, (apart from now) when would you say it was most popular? How about when it was least popular? Interesting question and one I think of quite a lot - it's absolutely huge at the minute. It's insane really, personally I didn't think it would come round like this again and when people say music goes round in cycles - I just refused to believe that music would come round in such a way as it has done in the past 12-18 months. Like four to five years ago house music was almost a swear word, nowadays young people are like 'Deep house this, deep house that' - it's crazy. Seeing young producers and DJs like Maya Jane Coles and Julio Bashmore hit the forefront this year has been refreshing to say the least. When we were running Development - it was a great night but a very small niche scene. A big track at Development wouldn't necessarily mean a big track worldwide. However, now, a track like Osunlade - Envision has been absolutely massive everywhere and that would've definitely been a classic at Development. With regards to when was it popular before that... I'd say leading up to around 99-2000 it became insanely popular, but with popularity the bubble burst and it became all a bit too funky and mainstream for me personally. As for least popular, from my own perspective I'd say somewhere between around 2004 to about 2008 - the minimal/electro kind of style - you just felt it had kind of gone forever.Over the past year or two house seems to have had a massive resurgence, with Ibiza attracting huge amounts of visitors this year and clubs/raves across the UK packed full of people... it really seems to have widened its appeal recently. Why would you say this is? What's changed, if anything, to make the sound so much more appealing? I think it's just a new generation of people that are actually appreciating the music for what it is. As I said earlier with the emergence of DJs/artists people can relate to like Maya Jane Coles, Seth Troxler, for instance, we've almost got a new guard coming in to take people on a new journey - out with the old, in with the new. Yet you've still got stalwarts who've been around for years leading the charge - like Kerri Chandler and Tony Humphries, both have been residents as DC10 all summer in Ibiza, amazing if you think about it. Also, music is a lot more accessible these days with the digital download generation, tracks are a lot easier to get hold of and people are embracing technology a lot more, using social media to spread music all over the world. It's come a long way since having to ring up your local record shop to find out if they had one of a hundred test pressings or promos and going down there to pick up flyers to see what's on and who's playing.Do you worry that it might crossover into the mainstream and get watered down/abused by major labels?There is always that worry, but whilst there's people still getting into it at such a young age I think they'll always be an underground music scene. It's not something you get into and go 'Well, actually I'll go and watch David Guetta now at Pacha'. You either get it or you don't, and at the minute a lot of people get it.As music tends to go in cycles, I imagine a lot of the sounds that have been prevalent this year will soon be replaced by new trends - as someone so involved in the music, do you have an predictions about where the music will go over the next six months or so?I think it's just a journey for us all to go on and experience as it happens, if the next six months are anything like the last 12 - we're all in for a great time.And what are your plans and hopes for the future? The next few months are interesting for me, finishing my 24-hour mix project will be an achievement in itself and something I can be proud of when I listen back through the whole lot hopefully. I'm becoming a resident on Deep Vibes radio from January 2011 - I believe they're going to be streaming my 24-hour mix on New Years Day all day long so looking forward to that. With regards to the future, I've been approached by a couple of agents, so hopefully if I get with the right one I'll start getting a lot more gigs both in the UK and abroad. I'm just happy playing music and that people listen to me, to be honest.For more information on Stretford Dogs Club go to www.stretforddogsclub.co.uk and check out his mixes on Soundcloud - soundcloud.com/stretford-dogs-club