Being a mother can be difficult at the best of times, especially if you're juggling motherhood with a career. Anja Schneider is a Berlin-based DJ who also helms techno label Mobilee, she fell pregnant in late 2010 and gave birth to her son in August last year. Bearing this in mind, I wondered how becoming a mother affected her lifestyle, which, as a touring DJ and label head, was about as busy and hectic as one could imagine. She kindly took some time out to speak exclusively about being a mum and the effect it's had on her life.So Anja, how's life for you family-wise?In the beginning it was quite difficult because it's a complete change of life and it feels sometimes as though you live in two different worlds - especially when you come home Sunday after all this crazy club life and then your family is waiting. But, honestly, it's all really good so it's not so difficult for me. Of course this is a big change in my life and I know 'Ok now I'm a responsible parent' and after that it's all good. It's lovely because I can do my job on the weekends and, during the week, I can be there for my son. I've just done three gigs in a row, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, but mostly I'm only doing one because after one or two days I'm missing him like hell! [laughs].So when you fell pregnant did you start to think about what changes you needed to make in your life to accommodate the new arrival?The biggest change I made in this time was, in my apartment there's one room that's for music only - DJ equipment, records (it was full of records). I tried to change this room, so I went through all my records and put the good ones - ones I'll never touch again, promos - all together and gave them to a friend. I thought 'I don't need a music room anymore, I need a really nice room for my baby'. At this age you know I've done every party, I did everything, I've had a brilliant life so far... and sometimes you feel a little bit bored. Sometimes when I'm playing at parties where people are maybe ten, twenty years younger than me - so maybe I was waiting for something new. I didn't expect this, but it's the best additional thing to my life.I thought I would never be a mum, because I didn't think it would fit into my life, but of course it does... and, if you look at these male DJs, they're all fathers. The big DJs all have families, but they can do whatever they want. They're not thinking 'Ah, should I go to South America? Oh, I can't do it'. As a woman, as a mother, it's a lot more difficult to make these decisions and, of course, I'm not making these kind of decisions right now.

So, are you sticking to just doing gigs in Berlin and Germany?No, not only Germany but Europe - anywhere you can fly in and fly out. In the beginning I always took the first flight home because I thought 'Oh I have to be home', but my boyfriend and my family said 'You know what Anja, stay there. We love you more when you're relaxed and had some sleep'. That's what I love most about the gigs is, I have at least six hours in my hotel room in my own bedroom, this is quite great!And how was it when you were pregnant, did you continue to work and go to clubs and stuff or did you calm it right down?I continued until the sixth month and my last gig was in Detroit so you could really see it then - it was quite heavy. I was not drinking alcohol, as I usually would, I couldn't smoke cigarettes... but in the end I had it super because my lovely agency was telling everyone 'Yeah yeah, she's coming, she's pregnant' so I had a nice pick up from the airport with two or three guys helping me with my luggage. I was allowed to arrive at the club one minute before my gig and I was allowed to leave straight away. No one else was smoking around me, I didn't have to go to any after-parties, so this was really nice!Are there any negatives aspects of motherhood so far?No, no - of course you gain a lot of weight but I'm losing it so far [laughs]. It's the biggest change and I can't see anything negative right now, and if I say 'I need this night of sleep' it's not negative, it's the best thing!What effect has iT had on your career in particular?Of course the pregnancy had an effect because I wasn't playing after the birth, so that meant I stopped for seven or eight months. And you know I run the record label which contains the booking agency,  so if one of the main artists is not playing for eight months, it's quite difficult because there's money that's not there anymore for the company to build on. But now I'm really proud because we have so many more artists that are big headliners, I think I can retire soon!I know it's really early days, but would you like your son to be involved in music in the future?Absolutely not, no way! [laughs]. If he tells me 'Hey I like techno music', no way, no no! I would love it if he's really into music, it's the best - I would love it, but it's all his decision.And when he gets old enough to understand, how would you explain your past and your career to him?Oh my God, I'm really afraid for this moment. Maybe he'll see something on YouTube and be like 'Mum is this you?'... I have no idea, maybe it will be normal for him. For me it's absolutely normal.And how's the label doing?We're OK, this business is quite difficult but we're really proud of what we're doing. We're releasing the first DVD, we made a documentary about our artists Pan-Pot, which will be released at the beginning of March/end of February. It's a really big project, it's really cool.So does it follow their lives on the road?Yeah, their lives on the road - the gigging, where they're coming from, meeting their parents - how it is to be a superstar DJ. mobilee podcast 027: Anja Schneider Electronic Beats Mix by mobilee recordsFor more information on Anja visit her Facebook page HERE and find out more about her label Mobilee Records by checking out their website HERE.