
	Dear Mr. Baldwin,
	Let me begin by saying this is not a stalker letter, so please don't call a cop. I do want to say, however (beyond giving you the following sound advice), that I am not just a big fan of yours, but a fan who has so much in common with you it's uncanny. Again, no stalking involved here.
	You have anger issues. I have anger issues. I even have road rage when I'm walking.
	You do yoga with your wife. I do yoga with my friend.
	You lost weight. I didn't lose weight.
	You punch out photographers. I've dated photographers I wanted to punch out.
	Here's where we differ, though: You say you have a stalker. I've had five stalkers.
	Since I collect stalkers the way other women collect rich husbands, I offer you this hands-on experience from the trenches — stalkee to stalkee.
	Lesson One: Never Cry.
	Yes, Mr. B, you cried in court Tuesday, or pretended to — over an alleged lady stalker, yet. Now, I've never had a lady stalker, but I did have several sumnabitch men stalkers who stalk ladies.
	And I refused to let them make me cry, even though any one of them might easily have turned you into a bigger crybaby than LeBron James.
	The worst of 'em was a downstairs neighbor/diplomat/stalker bastard from a tiny African country, who enjoyed full diplomatic immunity, which meant all bets were off.
	The diplo-psycho slipped notes under my door — once even gained access to my apartment and left a note inside. Another time, I found a 6-foot-long length of surgical tubing stuffed in my purse! He tapped into my phone and called my friends. He mailed me my columns with my face cut out.
	Terrifying to a single mom? You bet your asana, baby.
	But his apartment was legally considered African soil and off-limits even though it was directly under mine in New York City, U.S.A. Even the UN told me to piss off. Did I cry even once? No.
	What I did do was speak to another neighbor, a kindly fellow who'd heard of my distress. I have no idea what the kindly neighbor does for a living, but I think it involves gambling and bone-breaking. I don't even know his real name since he changes it. A lot. I think that year he was Neil Diamond.
	What Neil Diamond said was, "Ya wan 'im to dissapeah?" What I said back was, "You mean as in hurt or kill? No! I couldn't live with myself!" He shrugged.
	I never talked to Neil Diamond about it again, although from that moment on, every time the diplo-freak saw my daughter or me he ran on his now one good leg like his ass was on fire. Did I cry? Abso-frigging-lutely not.
	Lesson Two: Never let the courts handle it.
	I had another stalker who had a history of assaulting women. He somehow got my numbers and called me relentlessly from untraceable phones and mailed me photos of my family that he'd somehow taken. The cops got him after several months. What happened? The judge let him go.
	So, what's a single mom to do in a situation like that?
	I said don't let the courts handle it. I didn't say don't let a cop handle it — especially one that's, say, a relative, or a good friend.
	Lesson Three: Never take your friend's supposed mistress out to dinner.
	Lesson Four: Never leave your wife in court while you go where? Let's hope it wasn't to take a friend's mistress out to lunch.
	Lesson Five: Follow all the lessons above, and, for God's sake, man up, man — and stop crying.