Kevin Saunderson was there in Detroit right at the birth of techno, as part of the Belleville Three with schoolmates Juan Atkins and Derrick May he's credited with helping to create the genre. Going on to form Inner City, who had huge commercial success with the timeless tracks Good Life and Big Fun, Kevin has worked consistently in the years since techno was born - making electronic music and DJing/touring around the globe. Still one of the scene's most revered and respected proponents, Kevin has reunited with the crew from Inner City to release some new material - several years after their last outing.The single with Inner City, can tell me about that to begin with because you haven't done anything for a while... We had a hiatus while I was DJing and doing other stuff, Reese Project and so on. Paris Grey, that's the original singer, she wanted to slow it down and spend some time with her kids... so we put Inner City on the backburner and let life and our experience develop. We got back together in 2008 to do a tour of Europe - I think it touched her in a way that she realised her presence was missed. So from there we kept in contact and she said 'Kevin, when my daughter graduates from High School I'll be ready to do this full-time again'. And that's what she did, so we started working on tracks, we've got about four tracks already. When her daughter graduated I listened to what we had worked and determined that Future should be our first track, I like the vibe of it - it's kinda dark, but powerful.So do you think go back on the road with Inner City then?Definitely, we're already setting up dates and doing some things. There'll be times when the girls go out by themselves doing traditional 'PAs', there'll be times when I'm with them with a computer and a keyboard and there'll be times when we're gonna have the whole band.Obviously you're still DJing as well, how does that compare with performing live?It's a change of pace, DJing has a different kind of energy to it. You go in and play records that you enjoy playing, some of them are mine, most of them are not - I play stuff that's current, some classics and give people the history of music at the same time. When you're doing lives, especially for the new generation, everybody knows Good Life and Big Fun, when you start playing stuff like Hallelujah and Til We Meet Again it's quite different because everyone doesn't know those songs. But I think in the end when it all comes together and it's played and the show's done, I think people appreciate what we've done for the history of music and how we've inspired so many.Of course. Now, you've been involved in making music for quite some time, but what was initial push that got you into it all?I used to listen to people like Chaka Khan, Evelyn 'Champagne' King, Stephanie Mills... I liked a lot of disco, I liked a lot of vocals. Then I moved to Detroit hung out with Derrick May, Juan Atkins, went to school with them and it was a different musical education for me because they introduced to people like New Order, B52s, Kraftwerk - a different side of music. The music was more synthesised than traditional stuff. My inspirations come from all of that - and I used to go to the Paradise Garage... I always had this one thing about wanting to make a record that you could play out in the clubs but would also be considered cool on the underground. It started there and luckily it took off...And how important are vocals to you?I think they're very important, of course I've made records like Rock To The Beat and stuff where it was minimal vocals, not a complete song but I've always in using a vocal even if it's just a short, catchy hook. It's different when you have someone like Paris, she's like another instrument and she always complimented what I did. If I had hooky lines, she would be able to write a hooky vocal with melody.Over the past year vocals have made quite a big comeback within the music, what would you say was the reason behind this?They say everyone goes in cycles and I guess that's true. It's great to hear all these underground records, and dubs and all that - but there comes a point when you want more, a change of pace and I think that's been redeveloped. It's just the right time for that......yeah people like to sing along and hear tracks that are accessible rather than an instrumental that you might not even be able to remember.That's right, and you don't even know the name of it, you're like 'What's the name of that?!' If you hear a song or a melody you can at least hum it or sing it and you got a good chance of finding out what the record is. So, there needs to be a balance with everything - I've been about balance, the way I create, my whole life, it's just that the market dictated how people should hear music.How in touch are you with the current scene?I DJ all the time, I'm current - I don't follow trends too much. I know enough about what's going on, but I don't follow names. I just play music, I play what I like and just enjoy playing.Are there any tracks that are featuring quite heavily in your sets at the moment?You're gonna get me with that cos I don't never remember names! I'm never like 'Oh yeah that's one of my hot tracks, let me write that down', I never even look at any of that kind of stuff. It's very seldom that I remember the name of a track that I'm playing. That's the way I've always been - I will listen to a lot of tracks and then I just say what works, I know what I feel, I know what feels good.Do you get to head back to Detroit much?Yeah I've been living there for the last 40 years, but I recently moved to Chicago. I'm about half and half between the two, outside of when I'm touring and traveling the world.And how's the scene there at the moment?It's not so good, we have the festival (DEMF) when the club scene comes alive but overall, if you come out every week, it's hit and miss. Every month it might be hit and miss, it's kind of bizarre - even though I know the scene, musically, seems to be growing in America it's more on the commercial side. Because all these high school kids are into what the radio is playing and it's playing clubbier stuff than it has in the past instead of just pop, everyone's trying to put a house beat to their music now so that's opened up doors. But as far as the general underground, people going out and listening to music because they love it, that's not happening in Detroit right now. There's no history, nobody knows anything about the music, it makes it hard - because the people who got older and maybe come out once or twice a year want to hear the older stuff, then the new people want to hear what they hear on the radio and don't understand that there's still good music that works.Talking about the older crowd, a few months ago I asked Carl Craig when he thought he might kick back and call it a day, so I wanted to ask you the same thing...Well, that's a good one. I don't know when I'm ready to... I think my mind and my body will tell me - at this point I'm really inspired to make music more than traveling and touring, I'll say that. But I think making music is timeless, whether I release it or not is a different story. DJing-wise, I'm 47 now, I think by the time I'm 55 I'll be limited on trying to DJ - I have grandkids, four kids... other things I want to experience in life. So I will definitely slow down.How do you think you'll spend your time when you're done with music, more music making or business management?I'm already managing businesses, outside of music I'm kind of an entrepreneur, I like doing other things - I have a chain of hair salons, there are about 23 stores in America and that's growing. Pioneering like I've done in music. I also want to score a couple of movies, that's my goal.

Cool, what kind of movie would you like to put a score to?Something that's really futuristic, hi-tech so the boundaries are less contemporary.Check out Kevin's inspirations mix below. Kevin Saunderson - In The House Inspirations Mix by Defected RecordsA new compilation entitled Defected Presents Kevin Saunderson In The House is available now, click HERE to pick it up.