Years ago, when I lived in Manchester, I always found that Norman Jay was a constant feature during my journeys back home to London and returning to the north. He was in charge of one of the music channels aboard the Virgin trains back then, so I'd always flick through, plug in my headphones and drift off to his brilliant Good Times show which always featured a perfect selection of older funk, soul, RnB, disco and so on... mixed with newer cuts. His Good Times stage at the Notting Hill carnival is an essential destination for anyone who visits (along with the Rampage stage of course) and he's even received an MBE for his services to music. On New Year's Eve he hosts the Good Times New Year's Eve party which is a surefire way to kick off the new year with a big smile on your face. Ahead of the party I asked Norman to describe his perfect New Year's Eve... and he's recorded an exclusive mix just for me, too. Norman Jay Xmas Podcast 2011 by Marcus_BarnesSo Norman, I'd like you to envisage the perfect NYE - imagine you could do anything you wanted for New Year's Eve... First off, where would you hold the party?I think it would have to be Buckingham Palace. It would be without doubt the most amazing venue in the world.How would you create the perfect NYE atmosphere?It goes without saying we would have to invite all of the UK's club culture royalty! The best DJs, best promoters, the best party people in the country.How do you imagine the whole set up would turn out? For a start it would be a roadblock, complete chaos. We would have DJs playing inside the palace and live acts and performers in the gardens, with myself playing an exclusive set in the Throne Room!Haha, brilliant from MBE to king DJ! And what kind of music would be playing?All the best black and dance music from the last 50 years to the present day. From fifties doo-wop and jazz to funk, disco, soul, hip-hop and some jackin house right through to ragga, jungle, grime and dubstep.Sounds wicked so far, which tracks would be played to build the atmosphere up to countdown?Tracks from Queen, Prince, Amy Winehouse, James Brown and any of my favourite artists from over the years - too many to mention.Given complete carte blanche then, living or dead, which DJs/musical acts/singers would be on the bill?Live I would have have Chic, Nat King Cole, Miles Davis, Fela Kuti, Bob Marley, Jackson 5, De La Soul, Cee-Lo Green, Small Faces, Marvin Gaye, Jocelyn Brown, Soul II Soul.. I could go on forever though. DJing I would have Jimmy Saville, Giles Peterson, Kenny Everett, Larry Levan, Fabio and Grooverider, Magnetic Man, Usain Bolt, Judge Jules, Louis Vega, Frankie Knuckles, David Morales, Paul Oakenfold and Carl Cox... and any of my DJ friends that I could find a room for as the palace has hundreds of rooms.What would be the first track played after midnight?God Save The Queen by the Sex Pistols - it chooses itself.Who would be on your guestlist?Well if your name was down, you wouldn't be let in, as the party would be FREE.You can choose any stars to be added to your list as well... For musicians see above as they would all be playing, but I would also invite Barack, Nelson Mandela, Sir Michael Caine, Sir Mick Jagger, Vivienne Westwood, Malcolm Mclaren, John Galliano, Harry Redknapp, David Beckham, Harry Enfield, Ian Hislop, David Dimbleby, David Attenborough... even Nick Griffin (NF) would get an invite.

What would your chosen guests bring to the party to make it a special one?They would each have to make a massive charitable donation and arrange all the free booze for the party.It gets better and better! Would the party have a theme?The theme would be Unity. Everything should be about Love and Unity.Fancy dress?Most definitely. The weirder the better, too.Colours?No grey.Decorations?I would video map the whole building to create something very unique and special for the night (or the days!)And what would your role be?My role would be DJ Host and Master of Ceremonies.How would you keep everyone entertained and make it the perfect start to the year?I would announce the opening of the FREE bar for starters. There would be no alcohol (or drugs) until after midnight, but as soon as it hits 12:00am I cannot be responsible for the mayhem that would follow.Any resolutions?The only resolution I ever make is never to make any. I don't do resolutions.Who would share you post-countdown special moment with?My wife.Norman Jay's Good Times NYE party takes place at the Battersea Arts Centre on December 31, for more info and tickets click HERE.