Martin Dawson produces sublime house music of the highest order. Releasing his long-player Sunday Smoking to a great response earlier this year, he's a very busy man - performing live shows and DJing, as well as a consistent output of new music both on his own and in collaboration with his music making friends (including British producer Glimpse). This week Martin is in the UK to continue an on-going project with Glimpse, and to play at a Halloween party put on by London promoters Potty Mouth. Before that though, he had to spare a few minutes for a chat with me...What was the trigger behind the decision to get into being a DJ/producer? Which came first?I started out playing guitar when I was 10 and later, around 17, was in a punk rock band. After this I started playing guitar for my friend's dance project which ended up taking me to London. With these guys I learned some basics about producing and when the band split up I got a set of decks as most of the music I liked to buy was only on vinyl. I have always claimed to be a producer and musician first before a DJ but I think the two go hand in hand.How long did it take before you were making music that you felt comfortable enough to let others listen to?It took me ages to play my tunes to anyone else. I was super shy about them. In a way I still am. I dont like to be in the room when someone checks out one of my tracks. I will leave or it will have been sent via email. Much easier on the ego!What kind of stuff did you listen in your youth? How much influence has that had on your current output?I was really into Smashing Pumpkins and Rage Against The Machine which I don't think sound like me now but I wouldn't be writing music today if it wasn't for those bands because I was so obsessed by music when I was growing up I felt I had to do this as well.When you DJ, how do you prepare yourself for a show? Do you have a pre-conceived idea of how the set will be? Any pre-show rituals?DJing is very different from performing a live show. I have never prepared for a DJ set  as you just dont know what the party will be like or what the DJs before you will play, so you have to be open and flexible. With the live thing I will put together a show that I play three or four times max and within that time I will have new material to add. I keep a couple of 'hits' in there but a lot is unreleased.Can you describe the feeling you get when you're DJing and you have an entire dancefloor under your control...?I prefer to say connected to the audience as I feel they have as much effect on me as I do on them. But when a party comes together like that and you see all the smiling faces it inspires me in what I do and puts fuel on the fireHow do you keep yourself motivated, in terms of production? Do you ever have writer's block?I did a few years back and spent a lot of time trying to work out why it happened to avoid it happening again. My conclusion was to avoid repetition where ever possible. For example, this year I have worked on a Martin Dawson album, we are about to release the Two Armadillos album plus I'm also finishing the next King Roc LP and a vocal album collaboration project with Catz n' Dogz plus other collaborations with Glimpse, Andre Crom and Jay Shepheard. Plus solo EP's etc etc.... mixing it up and keeping things fresh.You've produced several tracks with the UK's very own Glimpse. Are you still considering making an album together and if so, how far along is the project?I am at Chris' (Glimpse) house now for a week in the studio before my gig on Friday at Potty Mouth. We are working on tracks for Pets Recordings and Hypercolour (both labels run by our friends) and also a follow up to the Wildlife track that is about to come out on Leftroom. We are also working on a synch album project. We might do an artist album next year if we have time.Aside from your work with Glimpse, are there any other musicians out there you'd like to collaborate with?I think I have enough on my plate. I would love to work with more people but I just dont have time. One person that I am planning to schedule studio time with is Fritz Zander who is a very good friend of mine in Berlin. But that's it apart from more work with the guys I mentioned above. I only like to work with friends.You also released your own solo album, Sunday Smoking, earlier this year. How long did that take to put together?It came together in about six months which was crazy fast for an album. It was also something I didnt really plan for. It just sort of fell into place which was really cool.How would you describe the soundscape on Sunday Smoking? What's the theme?It's just a collection of house tracks that I feel can be played as much in the evening as well as at home. It's not a club bomb album and was never meant to be. It's supposed to be very musical so it sounds nice on the iPod as well. Martin Dawson live - Potty Mouth Halloween teaser by Potty Mouth DiscoWhat do you have in the pipeline, production-wise, in the next few months?Continuing with the guys I mentioned above. Giles Smith (Secretsundaze) and I are about to start our own Two Armadillos label which I am really buzzed about. It's all about the vinyl.You're playing Potty Mouth's Halloween fancy dress party, what are you going to dress up as?Maybe I can chuck a sheet over my head with a couple of holes in. Ahh... I would need some holes for my hands so I can actually play the live show. Could work though!What's your favourite horror film soundtrack? Best horror film 'bad guy'?Freddie from Nightmare on Elm Street or Jason from Friday The 13th as I grew up a young kid with these and they always freaked me out. Soundtrack to horrow movies?!?! It's more about the sound FX than the music. Mute a horror film and it just looks a bit funny.

If you could produce a soundtrack for any horror movie, new or old, which would it be?Haha not sure I would.... honestly I dont watch so many horror movies as I am no good at them. My imagination is bad enough on its own with out any help from movies. After watching The Grudge I had nightmares. So I will skip that experience I think.Potty Mouth Halloween Warehouse Party takes place this Friday, 28 October at Village Underground in Shoreditch. For tickets visit click HERE and for more information on Potty Mouth visit their Facebook page. 