Many of today's stars use a sound that has its roots in the late 70s and early 80s, when electronic intruments became a lot more prevalent in the music-making process. Those very early productions certainly have a lot to answer for, having a strong influence in both the commercial and underground musical spheres. Stuart Paterson, a DJ and record exec, has compiled a selection of rare tracks from the early era of electronic music called Elektro Diskow - it's a good, solid collection of music ranging from the mainstream, to the slightly more leftfield sounds of that period. Of course, being a huge fan of that sound I had to pick Stuart's brains on the new compilation, here's what he had to say...Why decide to put the compilation together now? What is it about the current music scene that made you want to put this album together?The sounds of the late seventies and eighties continue to be a massive influence on contemporary music makers and producers - not just the likes of Hot Chip, La Roux and Little Boots but also pop producers - Dr Luke or Stargate - even will.i.am's stuff has a flavour of it... I wanted to tell a different story to the "Rubik's Cube and legwarmers" compilations, a story about the clubs and DJs who played these tunes and the clubbers who danced to them and then went on to create House, Techno, Rave and the many electronic genres that followed.How did you go about collecting up some of the more hard-to-get-hold-of tracks?The sheer quantity (and quality) of tracks that are still in the archives or at least not on the popular radar is astounding. I used a combination of my own knowledge, research (internet and good 'ole fashioned books) and speaking to colleagues and music fanatic friends across Europe when sourcing the tracks. The latter was particularly useful when getting hold of some of the Belgian New Beat tracks like Nacht Und Nebel -  Beats Of Love and Snowy Red's Euroshima, tracks that were very underground but influential on a number of the musical outcrops that followed.Who was in charge of the selection process and how easy/difficult was it to narrow it down to the tracks that made the final cut?The final tracklist choice was mine. Obviously factors like rarity or songs being used for samples had a bearing on the album's final shape. Having amazing tracks like Situation by Yazoo (sampled by many many artists including most recently both Snoop Dogg and the Saturdays!) that people could relate to, definitely made it easier to choose..Which tracks, if any, did you leave out and feel particularly peeved at having to do so? As a compiler you're always constrained by time and sometimes have to be careful of issues with rights. There were some tracks that didn't quite make the cut so watch out for Elektro Diskow Volume 2...Can you describe the general sound found on Elektro Diskow? What differentiates it from the electro of today?It's actually quite a diverse set of sounds. From Telex's Moskow Diskow (the inspiration for the album's title) and Yazoo's Situation with their proto House leanings to very experimental tracks by the underrated Fad Gadget and then to pop from the Pet Shop Boys and Talk Talk, all were played in underground clubs and shaped the electro movements that followed. The artists on Elektro Diskow all had one thing in common: a desire to push boundaries and create something truly new and modern which I think comes ultimately from having grown up in the aftermath of punk.Which songs on the compilation do you count as your own personal favourites or which hold particularly fond memories for you?The Telex and Yazoo tracks I've previously mentioned are first and foremost club tracks that still work in that context today - I still play them out. It's great to have Laid Back's incredible White Horse on a UK compilation after it being such a mainstay of Shoreditch and Dalston DJ sets in the past few years. The Human League will always have a place in my heart - Phil Oakey and the girls on Top Of The Pops performing all those hits from the Dare album - what a band!Why do you think the electro sound has remained so relevant?I think you can trace the DNA of so many other sounds that followed it. Obviously House and Techno but also loads of modern RnB and pop productions are clearly influenced by these tracks. Listening to a track like The Things Dreams Are Made Of by Human League/League Unlimited Orchestra, which itself was remixed by Kissy Sellout and Ilya Santana in recent years, you can hear the echoes of the music to come. It's just a phenomenal record.Can you describe for me what the world was like at the time most of these songs were released... fashion/clubs/hairstyles... how did people dance to this music? What were the names of the clubs where you could go to hear this sound and which DJs would we have encountered?Not to do the whole "Back In T'Day" thing but it really was a different world. Computers and video games were only just becoming household items, the CD was a couple of years from being the format of choice, there were three (then four in 1982 with Channel 4's launch) TV channels and only a handful of music programmes to see your heroes perform on. New Romantic and Disco fashion was very much the order of the day and mainstream clubbing was still of the cheesy variety. It was only in clubs like the Paradise Garage in New York, Muzic Box in Chicago and British clubs like the Blitz and, later, the Hacienda in Manchester that a real underground alternative was on offer. DJs like Larry Levan (at the Paradise Garage) and Ron Hardy at Muzic Box made it possible to have an eclectic underground playlist where the latest Mutant and Post-Disco could be heard alongside these fresh European electronic sounds.Which artists from today's music world would you say have taken the most inspiration from the sounds found on Elektro Diskow?I think artists like Lady Gaga, La Roux and Calvin Harris in the pop world and "Indie-er" groups like Junior Boys, Hot Chip, Metronomy and Little Dragon clearly have been inspired by that era both in terms of sound and sometimes look. You can hear it in the work of new producers such as Totally Enormous Extinct Dinosaurs, Jamie XX and SBTRKT, too.Who were the real pioneers of the electro sound and where did it begin?Other records had hinted at the possibilities of electronics but I think you can trace it back primarily to two records: Kraftwerk's Trans Europe Express and Donna Summer's Giorgio Moroder-produced masterpiece I Feel Love both from 1977.  Many of the artists on Elektro Diskow have cited these two records as the sparks that made them believe an electronic future was possible after having dabbled in guitars and punk.When you play these tracks now, do younger crowds 'get it'?Definitely! If you play a track like Moskow Diskow alongside modern electro influenced stuff it really works. People can make the connection and a great dance record is always a great dance record.In 20 years time, which musicians from today's music scene can you imagine would feature on a similar compilation to Elektro Diskow?Daft Punk, I think, will be talked about in the same way that we talk about Kraftwerk - they really did change the game. Jamie XX will go down as a great producer and I think James Murphy's contribution will be recognised both as LCD Soundsystem and as the head of DFA Records that has brought us Juan Maclean, the Rapture, Holy Ghost and so many other great dance acts.Buy Mixmag Presents: Elektro Diskow by clicking here and check the Elektro Diskow website for more in-depth information and regular updates: www.elektrodiskow.com  Elektrodiskow Minimix by ElektroDiskow