As I've previously stated on this blog, sometimes the club/festival scene can be a little bit bland - so it's always refreshing to find a new event that goes against the grain or introduces something a bit out of the ordinary to the party experience.This week, one such event is taking place that is literally the first of its kind (UK-wise at least). Red Bull Music Academy will host a 'Festival in the Sky' using the London Eye and its pods as mini party venues, each hosted by a different DJ/performer.The line-up for RBMA's Revolutions in Sound includes DJs like Goldie, Skream  Benga, David Rodigan and Andrew Weatherall and performers such as Ms Dynamite.It's an exciting venture and one which I reckon many visitors to the event will count as one of their best experiences this year. How many times will you be able to say you raved in a pod over the Thames with 30 other people?I managed to grab a few minutes with Torsten Schmidt, co-founder of Red Bull Music Academy for a bit of background on RBMA and the forthcoming festival.What were hopes and ambitions when you first decided to start the Red Bull Music Academy? Seeing that this was the Nineties as far as sustainable initiatives for challenging popular culture goes, we figured it was about time that someone upped the ante. We longed for a proper documentation of our culture, we ourselves were incredibly keen to learn more, to absorb knowledge from the very best in the field, the ones who were instrumental in the key moments that shaped music.  And by doing so, hopefully inspired upcoming generations to continue conceiving and producing outstanding music.Why did you come up with the idea of doing a 'Festival in the Sky' (Revolutions in Sound)?When the Red Bull Music Academy was hosted by London in 2010, it comprised various nights in underground car parks, Roman cellars, takeovers of the Royal Festival Hall, the Royal Albert Hall's basement and the Roundhouse in Camden. This time, we aimed higher: the London Eye.What can partygoers expect from the event? Every individual capsule will be hosted by outstanding artists and crews that have already left and are still in the process of leaving their mark on the sounds of London. There'll be  the marvellous Andrew Weatherall, the Night Slugs crew, Skream  Benga ft Sgt Pokes, Deviation ft. Benji B  guests, Lunice, Roller Express, Shy FX, David Rodigan and so on and so on. The aim is to give reveallers and their (new) friends a private party with sounds that we deem to be as stunning as the view as they'll be elevating above.There are so many festivals and music events, small and large, around these days - is it important to keep it original?Any musical gathering is only as good as the music playing and the people you're enjoying it with. It's a fantastic opportunity to discover and (re-)enjoy all kinds of music in a communal setting, which especially in our shut-off-by-earbuds-age is something that cannot be cherished enough. The second the first snare hit kicks in, I want the same perfect experience as every one else. Original settings are mostly just little crutches to ease the every day worries out and usher the good times in.Have you been to many festivals yourself? Describe one of your best festival memories...Memories from the trenches were mostly lost in the fogs of teenage mayhem, so it's a tough one. But some survive, like the historical rainfall towards the end of 1992's Berlin Love Parade, still on the Ku'damm, Terrorize's "Just A Feeling" sending in cascading piano stabs as we clung on to dear life on the top of the truck (well documented in Wolfgang Tillmann's Taschen books).Tune into the action live from the London Eye on Thursday 13th October via www.redbullmusicacademy.com/worldtour/london where you can select what to follow from the 30 capsules. And keep up to date on the line ups by visiting www.redbull.co.uk/revolutionsinsound