Deetron is a Swiss native with an impressive history, having been entrenched in the house and techno worlds since the early nineties and still going strong. A highly-skilled DJ as well as an accomplished and well-respected producer, Deetron will be appearing in Heidi's Jackathon room at the huge 8th birthday celebration for London-based record shop and label Phonica. Here he enlightens me on his history, imparts some advice to youngsters and touches on the importance of Phonica Records.Describe your first foray into the world of music production - who were your early inspirations? What kind of sound were you aiming to create?I started making music with a very basic setup consisting of a computer with a sequencing program and a single Roland Juno 106 synthesizer. At that time I was heavily influenced by the records coming from Detroit and I was basically trying to come up with something which I could play together with these tracks in my sets.How would you describe your current sound?A melodic and housey take on techno, with an emphasis on bass and percussion and often topped with vocals.Who amongst your peers are doing music you're really into at the moment?There's so much great music right now. I'm really into the stuff by Lone, Ripperton, Four Tet, Wbeeza, Cosmin TRG, Redshape, Vakula and so forth.You've collaborated with a few other artists, including Seth Troxler; who else within the house/techno scene would you love to make tracks with?He's not exactly from within the house/techno scene but I'd love to work on a track with vocals from José James.What hints and tips would you give to a young person wanting to get into production and setting up a studio for the first time?Start working with a few components only and get to know these really  well before starting to get into new plug-ins or equipment and most  importantly be patient and don't rush the first release as it's become  very easy to release a track nowadays.If you could go back to any period within electronic music, or any club that no longer exists, where would you go? To the House of God in Birmingham most probably, that place was just crazy.What projects are you working on at the moment? I've just finished a double mix CD for the Balance series in Australia which will be released on the 7th of November. Furthermore I'm about to finish a new single for Music Man and remixes for Vakula on 3rd Strike, Simon Garcia on Perspektiv, Gerd on Clone and Miguel Migs on OM.

Name five tracks that have had the strongest influence on your musical output.1. E-Dancer - Pump The Move
2. Steve Reich - Music For Mallet
3. John Coltrane - My Favourite Things
4. The Vision - Detroit: One Circle
5. Gang Starr - Take It PersonalCan you talk a bit about the significance of Phonica Records within the music scene and, if applicable, to you personally.In my opinion it's the best electronic music record store there is together with Hard Wax in Berlin. I went shopping there in May this year and it was jam-packed with enthusiastic record collectors eagerly waiting for the new arrivals, a great atmosphere indeed!Phonica is eight years old this year, what were you doing eight years ago and what do you imagine you'll be doing in eight years time?I had just started touring internationally around 8-9 years ago and I imagine myself collaborating on music with my son in eight years time.Phonica Records hold their 8th birthday on October 1 at the Great Suffolk Street Warehouse, for more information and tickets click here. 