As well as being a resident DJ at one of my favourite clubs in the world, Space in Ibiza, Foamo is talented young producer who hails from sleepy High Wycombe where, by his admission, there is nothing much going on. But regardless of his hometown's lack of excitement, Foamo has developed a style of production and DJing that has won him a large following and respect from many of his heroes, as well as an AR role at top label Chew The Fat!. With a 'mega-EP' out very soon, I caught up with Foamo for a little chinwag...What's your musical history? How did you get started?I first got into electronic music when i was 13, a friend's cousin had a load of drum n bass/jungle rave tape-packs (One Nation, Slammin Vinyl etc...) that I borrowed. I loved the energy in the music. I got obsessed with DnB after that. I bought some turntables and started buying a lot of vinyl. I also started messing round with producing on my mum and dad's computer using Propellerheads Reason software, which I still use quite a bit now. I was making DnB for a few years, then moved onto garage/grime and dubstep. I was just making music for myself really, just experimenting, and sometimes making grime beats for local MCs that i knew. I never really tried getting anything signed or anything, as I didn't feel the music was good enough. Although I loved grime and early dubstep, it was so moody. It wasn't until I stumbled across some of the house that was being made around 2006/2007 that things really clicked for me. I loved the basslines, but it was also fun music that you'd want to dance to. I surprised myself with my first attempt at making a house record (Moving it Over Here) - I was really happy with it, so I decided to actually send it over the internet to a few DJs that I liked. The reaction was great, the same week I'd made the track it was played on Radio 1, Kiss FM, and later made its way to big DJs like Armand Van Helden and MSTRKRFT. Moving it Over Here by FoamoHow much of an effect does being from High Wycombe have on your musical style/output?There isn't any music in High Wycombe, but it's close enough to London. I go out every so often in london when I'm not working. I suppose it's good living somewhere with not much of a music scene, I can get away from it a bit during the week, and in-between tours etc... can chill out! And I can concentrate on work without being tempted to randomly go out during the week when I should be workingWhat is there to do there? Any notable clubs etc...?Nothing.Describe your current musical style if you can.I like to make music that takes inspiration from what I was into growing up, and what I'm into now. All the different types of music, and then I like to incorporate these different sounds into a house style beat and speed. I definitely take influence from the music that I'm currently into, and playing out in my DJ sets, so my musical style is always changing. But at the same time I think its important not to chase trends too much, as trends change so quickly these days, I think it's important to stay true to what you're really into. Breakage - Fighting Fire (Foamo remix) by FoamoHow does your current musical style differ to the stuff that you were making when you first started?I suppose it's matured a bit. Having the residency in Ibiza really inspired me, as I had a lot of time walking round Space, raving to different house DJs, it had an affect on the music I make.. But I also still love hard tracks with basslines. I take a lot of inspiration from the tracks I'm feeling and playing out in the clubs at the time, so my music is naturally evolves around my DJing. My DJing as changed a bit since ibiza too. Before, I'd be frantically switching it up every few minutes, as I want to keep the hype going, but I've learnt it's good to let the tracks roll out for longer.How's the Ibiza season been? What is it about Space that makes it such a special club?It's been amazing. It's definitley my favourite clubnight in the world, not just for DJing at but also for spending whole nights exploring the club and getting lost in the music. All the rooms are amazing and have completely different vibes, and it's great to hear music I wouldn't normally have the chance to hear, on an amazing system, with a great crowd... There's also a great family vibe with all the people involved in the night.What's been your personal Ibiza anthem over the summer season?Really love 'Deadboy - Wish You Were Here'... the track is pure ecstasy and I loved dropping it in Ibiza. So simple, those lush held chords, the second breakdown is real nice. The lights in Space are spectacular so tracks with long breakdown like this one just work so well.Tell me about your mini album - does it have a theme? How did it come about? How long did it take to put together?Well, it's more of a 'mega EP' really. It has eight tracks. Some of the Ibiza-influenced tracks I was making for summer, but it also has a few bassline bits I've been making for the more sweaty club rooms. I normally just release two-track singles here and there, so it's nice to release something a bit bigger, it gave me the chance to try out a few styles that I'm into and put it in one package.Chew The Fat is entering its 14th year, what have you done to keep it current and relevant?We are always looking forward, always checking new music, new acts, it evolves by itself... But we always try and program the night which has an element of fun. I think it's important to remember, clubbing is about having fun!Who are the new artists that you've brought it to keep the event fresh?Over the years there have been plenty, Adam Freeland played the second ever Chew The Fat,
Nero played last year before they blew up. Boy 8 Bit always brings something unique with his sets. Marco Del Horno has been our second room resident and, as a Rinse DJ, is totally up on his beats. We've had some great new French artists play for us, like Youngunz hosting Room 2 for us. We had Canblaster recently, I played a b2b set in Paris with him last year and he's really blown up recently. His stuff is so creative and inspired. Maribou State are playing the birthday party and have a release out the week after. Werk by The Living Graham BondWhich artists, who may be not so well known, would you recommend checking out at the mo? Who are you really digging at the moment?I love TLGB (The Living Graham Bond) his stuff is great, a lot of it is real fun. I love RacknRuin's stuff, I love how he takes the jungle energy, and puts it into different styles of house and dustup rhythms. Maribou State is another great new artist. Also, I love Woz, Morcee, NKC, Pale, Statix, Bondax, Skinnz, Kill Sonik, Artificial Intelligence...When you're DJing, what are the thought processes that go through your mind? Are there any recurring thoughts that you have?Recurring thoughts are normally along the lines of "That track didn't go down as well as I thought it would"... "Didn't expect that track to go down so well"...  "Where are my drinks tokens?..."... "She looks nice" ... "That guy at the front looks absolutely fucked"...What's the strangest thing you've seen happen while you've been DJing?I threw up half way through a set recently, thing is, I hadn't even drunk much that night, think it was just a heavy week that finally caught up on me. Seen some crazy stuff DJing at snowboarding and wakeboarding festivals they're the worst for that kind of stuff, people ripping a chandelier off the ceiling, a few naked people on the dancefloor jumping around etc...Which tunes have you been smashing recently?I love Zinc's new EP... A lot of new stuff from Woz, The Living Graham Bond...With winter soon to draw in, what are your plans for the darker months?Just going to be spending as much time possible locked away working on album stuff... also working on a few things with singers etc...Chew The Fat! hold their 14th anniversary party at The Nest in Dalston, east London on November 18, visit www.thefatclub.com for more information...