I've been to Newcastle twice in my lifetime, both times were for nights out but back in the days when I frequented more 'commercial' clubs. I had a brilliant time on both occasions, if there's one thing everyone knows it's that Geordies, and people from the north in general, know how to party. But, sadly, the impression that most of have of Newcastle is a city where commercial music overrides everything else... which begs the question 'What about house and techno?'... There has to be some kind of electronic scene there?Although it's often overlooked, there is a strong electronic music scene in Newcastle. Manchester, Leeds, Bristol and, of course London, are where much of the attention is focused in terms of electronic music but Newcastle is a city that does its own thing regardless of whether the rest of the country pays attention or not. If any proof were needed the city has top DJ s paying regular visits to the city, clubs regularly packed with hungry music lovers and one of its premier nights, Shindig, is about to reach its 20th anniversary.With Shindig fast approaching its admirable milestone, I spoke to Neil Bainbridge who has been working with Shindig for 10 years and has worked his way up from driver to resident DJ up to his current position as co-owner and director along with Scott Bradford, who started the event.Speaking from his office in Manchester where he's currently based, Neil explained how Shindig's management has kept the event fresh for the last 19 years: 'Because Scott's still one half of the team Shindig has still got a lot of the positive attitudes it had in 1992. It's success lies in that kind of outlook, and not overly paying attention to fast trends ... Scott and I have never quickly jumped on anything or prescribed to the idea that "If it works in London, it'll work in Newcastle". We've always thought things through first. In a good way, Geordies know what they like, they wanna have a good time at the weekend and it's our job to give them that good time. That was how Shindig started in 1992, Scott and his partner Scooby (Lee Melrose) started a party primarily just for their friends. And, like most successful parties, it outgrew its confines.'This attitude has stayed consistent over the years to make Shindig what it is today - a hugely popular fixture on the north-east clubbing calendar and an event that evokes a sense of nostalgia among its older clientele while still attracting the younger generation with high production values and fresh music played by some of the best DJs in the business.As Shindig outgrew one club after another, Neil and the team finally moved on from Newcastle's superclub, Digital, to find their own space where they could run the event just as they wanted to with no outside influence. They eventually found Warehouse 34, a true warehouse in every sense of the word just outside the city centre where the event now runs.Neil explained that the dance music scene continues to flourish in the north-east city not only because of the local party goers, but also the influx of young people from the many universities dotted around Newcastle. 'You've got the catchment areas of Durham and Sunderland, so people [who live there] have always travelled into Newcastle for gigs and stuff. The city has a reputation for stags dos and the like, but I think that helps to add to the party atmosphere in a strange backwards kind of way [laughs]. But you can push to that one side and find lots of smaller parties, the students bring in new ideas and, like Leeds, you can find smaller parties for 200 or 300 people. Every September you see four or five new nights pop up, so there's a really good scene. There's a lot of choice and a good balance between the smaller and the big stages - there's a lot of stuff that goes on at the O2 and Digital are still flying the flag for all the big guys,' he said.With such a wide array of club nights on offer, there's always something going on in Newcastle and, as Neil explained to me, as well as the fresh ideas and variation in club nights, it's the northern spirit that also feeds into the city's colourful nightlife. 'I know it's a cliché but they say the further north you go, the livelier the parties get and I think that's true,' he said.And, while the clubs continue to welcome more and more customers through their doors - even when the bitterly cold winter draws in - the numbers of people getting into making the music are also on the rise. Neil explained: 'Again, owing to the students, there are a lot of bedroom producers popping up - we're always getting demos sent in to our inbox and people asking how they can get on and play at Shindig. There's a good raft of people that wanna make underground music, whether it be techno, house or dubstep... people at the club are switched on, they're talking about music, they wanna make music. One of our residents, Mark Lowry, he runs a production and DJ school in Newcastle called UMT and he's seen a really big influx of people who want to get more involved with underground music and a lot of people have enrolled in his course.'Neil informs me that the Geordie scene has prospered regardless of whether it gets any attention or not, the city's fervent party atmosphere influencing things city-wide.He said: 'The north has never really got a lot of media attention, a few years ago one editor said to me "Well, Newcastle is not exactly the clubbing capital of the world". But, I challenge anyone to come to Shindig and not have as good a time as they would in London, or Ibiza or  wherever. The reason people come here and have such a good time is the atmosphere, you don't get people standing around or, if you do, you're gonna get looked at. It doesn't matter if it's a small student club or a big event with 2,000 people, regardless of genre or fashions, everywhere has a really good atmosphere and people have a good time.'And he says, rather than hold the city back, the lack of attention has in fact helped push the scene forward, 'That thing of not having anyone paying attention has really fuelled everyone to just get on with it up here. I think the same can be said of Glasgow and some of the Scottish cities, you just get your head down and get on with it. You do what feels right, and put the DJs and acts on that you wanna hear. We've never craved it, we just get on and do our thing.'The next Shindig takes place on December 3 with Joris Voorn  Nic Fanciulli at Warehouse 34 - Hoults Yard, Newcastle Upon Tyne. Look out for Shindig's 2012 series being announced soon and for more information go to: www.shindiguk.com