A producer by the name of Brenmar came to my attention recently, thanks to his new EP Let's Pretend. As soon as I flicked it on I was transported back to my early years at university when garage was massive and we'd have that kind of music playing day and night. Now Brenmar's stuff isn't some cheaply-made, knowing, nod to garage or an attempt to be cool and retro. It's simply electronic music with a hint of RB (the good kind of RB, not the tripe that's invaded the pop charts), slightly reminiscent of garage but in a league of its own - and very good it is too. Brenmar spared a few minutes for a chat recently, and here's the resulting interview...Explain your background and how you made those first steps into making music...I grew up listening to hip hop, RB, pop, and house... basically whatever was on Chicago radio in the early 90s. In my early teens I fell in love with hip hop and RB and started DJing at 14. I was given a really basic Gemini sampler when I turned 15, it wasn't much but was enough to get the ball rolling. I went through a lot of musical phases in my late teens and experimented a lot, just playing around with different genres and even in a couple of bands. I got really into dance music and DJing again around two and a half or three years ago.If you had to give your style of music a name, what would you call it and what are the typical sounds that it's made up of?Hybrid Club Music.  I combine elements of hip hop, RB, bass music, ghetto house, and pop and hopefully try and find a unique middle ground between them all.Your music has a bit of UK Garage feel to it, is that deliberate? If so, which UK Garage producers and DJs do you rate?To be honest the whole 2-step scene barely made it to America (apart from Craig David), I didn't find out about it till much later. I do love some of what I've heard but I'm far from an expert. Let's Pretend  by BRENMARHow has your home city influenced your musical output/style?Chicago hip hop and dance music is raw. I like it minimal but stated, no frills. Radio is great in Chicago, I really didn't realize how good it was till I left. It was pretty easy to hear 90s house, ghetto house, Twista, Do or Die, etc... on the radio at any given time during the 90s. In the early 2000s when Juke was making some noise, WGCI would start their rush hour commercial free hour with a lil bit of Juke. You take all of it for granted because you don't know any better. DJ Funk, footwork, house music, hip hop... you don't really question any of it because it's everywhere. It's why I'll flip a vocal sample the way I do or why 150 bpm isn't really that fast to me.Can you explain the thinking behind your EP... Is there an album on the way and, if so, how far are you into that?The three new originals on this EP are just a further extension of my sound. A little more melancholy than the last EP perhaps but I couldn't really tell you why that is. I also thought it would be nice to vary up the tempos a bit and show some range. So we have three new tracks representing 130bpm, 140bpm, and 150bpm. No album on the way, not a solo one anyway. I'm not that interested in a long player, it would have to be the right label/offer for me to honestly consider it. I'm more interested in producing albums for other artists. I want my own Ciara, Destiny's Child, Drake, etc...How do you enjoy your spare time away from music?I don't have any, this is all I do, all day, every day. If I'm not producing, I'm practicing DJing, if I'm not practicing, I'm traveling to the next gig. Temperature Rising  by BRENMAR
What have you been listening to today?I've been working on a track all day with Nightwave out here in Madrid, it's coming along nicely, close to wrapping it up.Who amongst your peers are you really feeling at the moment?Dubbel Dutch, Nguzunguzu, DJ Sliink, Fatima Al Qadiri, T. Williams, Sinden, Richelle, DJ K Millz,  DJ Champion, Mike Q, Samo Sound Boy, Funkystepz, Diamond Bass, J-wow, 5kinandbone5, Total Freedom, Ghosts On Tape, The Phantom, Girl Unit...

Any peeps we should be listening out for who may not be that well known?Jim-e Stack, Tar, FBOM, Pacheko, Trigzo, Graphics, Mele, Cedaa, Venice Calypso...Which track is guaranteed to get peeps throwing shapes regardless of how good or bad a party is ?Ginuwine - Pony... Doesn't matter where, it get's everybody moving nice and slow, real sexy like.What are you up to in the coming months??Three week European tour with a bunch of UK gigs and a lot of recording, getting ready for 2012 basically, where I'll be playing more shows and recording more songs.Best piece of advice you've ever been given (music-wise)? Don't quit! (Simple, but when it's the right person saying it, it means a ton).Which of your tracks would be the best one to play when you've got a chick back at your place and you're trying to seduce her? My edit of Jamie Foxx - Fall For Your Type... works very well, trust. Jamie Foxx - Fall For Your Type (Brenmar Remix) by BRENMARWhere would you like to be, career-wise, this time next year?Working on some major collaborations and tour stops in India, Australia, and South/Central America.How do the US and UK music scenes differ, from what you know/have seen?

Apart from a certain specific knowledge of homegrown music scenes/genres (2step, grime etc. in the UK and jersey club, footwork, bmore etc. in the US) they really aren't all that different. UK teens start hitting the clubs much younger than teens in the US due to the fact that we have to be 21+ to get into a club back home. Club culture, dance music, and DJing have been really popular in the UK for a long time where back in the US it comes and goes in waves it seems. I find more similarities than differences though. We both really like to party, that's for sure.For more information on Brenmar's European tour and when he'll be hitting the UK visit visionsandvisions.com