Playing records since the age of nine, Derrick Carter has unsurpassed skills when it comes to DJing. Synonymous with the 'Boompty Boomp' sound (a term coined by his mother in reference to the sound of the music he plays), Derrick is a house music stalwart with the ability to get the even the most uninspired crowd dancing like there's no tomorrow. This year the Chicago-born house icon is bringing back his seminal record label Classic - a venture set up by himself and British DJ Luke Solomon. And to celebrate, Luke and Derrick host a Classic party on Bonfire Night. Ahead of the highly-anticipated night, DC was kind enough to take time out for a chat... though, having been asked the same questions time and again throughout his illustrious career, the interview took a slightly different direction to normal...If music be the food of life, what does a Derrick Carter set consist of ? Divide it into a starter, main and dessert...I prefer something along the lines of a grand tour type tasting menu. Lots of little bites with corresponding wine progressions. Little bits of light jazz and sweet soul with some old RB and classics. Maybe a few torch songs and lots of calm soothing sounds for the early part of the meal leading into some funk and boogie interspersed with mid-tempo electronic/techy stuff. Followed by disco and up-tempo grooves with a little amuse-bouche of ambient and some old Sade for desert.Christian Louboutin has just released a line of shoes/sneakers for men - if a line of Derrick Carter shoes ever came into existence what would they look like? What materials would they made from? For A/W They'd be super premium with classic silhouettes and contrasting soles. Think Oliver Spencer leathers, Prada espadrilles creeper brogue soles, with a Diemme hiking boot styled upper. Or driving mocs with a brick sole. But done so it's not too garish. For S/S I'm thinking Vans type slip-ons with Maharam  Etro fabrics in crazy cool colours and gum soles. Maybe a few colorful oxfords with slight shading on the different panels. I'm still working on a decent capsule cruise collection though.If there was an album made called 'The Soundtrack to Derrick Carter's life' - can you name me a track that would define each of the last 20 years... I wish I could but I've never had an absolute "track of the year" type thing. I'm way too moody and I can't say that time periods have ever defined any of my choices. "What's hot" is completely relative.You pass away and find that reincarnation really does exist - thanks to your contribution to music you're allowed to come back as any person/creature of your choice. What would you choose to be and how would you spend your second chance at life?Ha! Like, I'd really want to do this all over again.What goes through your mind when you first wake up in the morning?The first thing I do is grab the laptop on the nightstand and check my email and social networks to see if I've missed anything during the night. Afterwards I usually look out the window to assess the weather so I'll know what I need to do in order to get the dogs ready for their morning walk. Then I decide if I'm going to feed them or walk them first (I prefer to feed first unless it looks like I need to beat the rain). Then I go over my to-do list and decide which tasks I plan on doing that day. If any.Which five words best describe your life up until this moment in time?Decent, funny, intense, loved, and semi-respected.

What's the greatest love story ever told? What does love feel like to you?I have no idea. I suppose most true love stories are pretty great on some level. I'm not a huge "love story" fan though so that one's a toughie. As for what love feels like to me, it's probably something along the lines of butterflies, butter creme frosting, puppy paws and security.If you could jump in a DeLorean and go back in time, what advice would you give to the teenage Derrick?I'd tell him to be mindful of what you say and when you say it.  Also remember to not forget. AND, stop worrying. Things will work out.What's the most expensive item of clothing you own? When you 'dress to impress' what does your outfit consist of?I have a leather jacket which was super expensive but managed to purchase it on sale at around a third of the original price. And of course, I've never worn it outside of the house.
Usually, I just try to put together a nice look. Maybe add a jazzy bow tie or something colourful and fun for some pizazz and make sure the shoes are tight. My winning personality can handle the rest...Describe a time when you thought 'life just can't get any better than this'..When I first met my nephew and my godsons is pretty high on that list.What's your dancing style?I don't dance. Not that I can't, I just don't.Can you remember your first kiss? Where did it happen, who was it with? I can. It was a girl that lived up the street from me.  I got in trouble for it...If you could take over from Obama for a week, what changes would you implement to make sure the world is a happier place to live in?Assuming that I'd want to (have you seen how much grey hair he's acquired during his term?), I'd probably try to do something to help people. I'm not a much for theoretical problem solving so I'm thinking generally. When I'm actually IN a situation, THEN my MacGyver kicks in. Get at me when I'm elected.In your opinion, which fast food outlet does the best French fries?Honestly? McDonalds. Burger King suffers from little brother syndrome and Wendy's, though a nice second, don't rock it as hard.

What's the world's sexiest accent?That depends more on who's doing the accenting. There are a few that totally tweak my head (ask Heidi...) but in general, I'm more into the package and not the wrapping.When you look in the mirror and see yourself, what do you think?Most recently I think, "get a haircut and a shave, like pronto!"You wake up to find you have the power of invisibility for the next 24 hours - how would you spend your day?I would call the dog sitters and make sure that the animals are taken care of then proceed to sleep most of the day. No need to follow anyone into the shower or sneak money out of the store tills. Though, I wouldn't mind a nice walk around town unnoticed.Tell us something about yourself that not many people know.Now why would I do something like that? Alright, I cry during movies.  Most movies, most of the time.In a movie about your life which actor would you like to play you? What would the film be called? I'd want it to be like I'm Not There, the Bob Dylan film where different characters and different actors played different aspects. Though I can't really be sure that anyone would go to see it. I'm not that interesting really. It'd probably be called something like Parts  Labour or even an artsy title like The Imaginary Man.Any predictions for 2012? It's coming. And plaid is "in" for next season. Derrick Carter - Live At Fabric, London (Sept. 10 2011)London Electronic presents Classic Is Your Friend takes place at Hackney Downs Studios on November 5 for tickets click HERE. 