
	With the insane prices Barneys charges, it's their execs who should be nailed by the cops for stealing — not the young black people who were profiled and arrested after paying outrageous prices for the accessories they were accused of robbing.
	And they're not alone in New York City. At Macy's, "Treme" actor Rob Brown was held by cops for committing Shopping While Black. It's shop, stop-and-frisk taken to the heights — or make that the depths.
	Sure it's 2013 and sure it's N.Y.C., but the suits in charge — despite their denials of racism — must think they're living in Alabama circa 1860. And if Barneys is living in a southern pre-Civil War mentality, then who is Jay Z in this nightmare?
	Profits from his collection for Barneys will go partially to charity and, in truth, pulling out of a collaboration that's already in motion may be legally impossible. That being said, if Jay Z really wants to help people facing socio-economic hardships, then why the hell would he sell a collection that nobody but the wealthy can afford?
	The right thing to do is to stand up and get out of the deal as soon as he can.
	As for the stores, you've got to wonder if their executives have even thought about the fact New York City mayoral favorite Bill de Blasio's gigantic lead is partially due to his mixed-race family — or that the de Blasio kids are just the kind of kids who would be arrested for committing shopping.
	"We can't tolerate racial profiling of any kind," de Blasio said. "Ending de facto quotas and profiling will be a top priority of mine."
	RELATED: JAY Z BREAKS HIS SILENCE OVER BARNEYS FUROR; SAYS HE'S 'NO STRANGER TO RACIAL PROFILING'
	This kind of profiling isn't new. Even former Gov. David Paterson, who is blind, was targeted. Recently, in Penn Station, Paterson asked a cop for directions. "He would only point, and refused to speak to me," Paterson said. "A stranger came up to him and said, 'That's a horrible way to treat anyone but you just behaved that way to the former governor.' Then the cop came running up to me and asked to take a picture with me!"
	Harlem Assemblyman Keith Wright isn't shocked, but disheartened by the latest spate of racial profiling. "It's horrific, it's outrageous, and if I were Jay Z, I would recuse myself from doing any business with Barneys," said Wright.
	And as outrageous as the racial profiling is, there's another point that needs addressing: Why in hell are college-age kids of any color shopping for hugely expensive clothes in the first place? Who has put it in their heads that they need a $349 Ferragamo belt or a $2,500 Céline purse?
	They need to buy these things because of over-the-top celebs like Jay Z who live like pashas and dress like, well, pashas.
	Kids should not be made to think that they need to buy expensive to be valued. It's up to Jay Z and all role model celebs to boycott these places, refuse to do deals with them in the future, and show kids that they don't need a billion to look like a million and feel like a star.
	GET OUT WHILE YOU CAN, KANYE
	Catching the wave of conspicuous ostentation, Kanye West spent $3 million bucks to propose to a woman worth 25 cents.
	Yes, Kanye, arguably a very smart guy, hasn't noticed that the women in the Kardashian kabal are lethal maneaters. And I mean that in the nicest "Walking Dead" maneater kind of way.
	Think about this: Marriage to momanger Kris turned an Olympic athlete, the former Bruce Jenner, into an eyebrow-plucking, plastic surgery-craving big lady.
	Hey, the only way a guy in that clan can be a man is by becoming a woman.
	Then there's daughter King Kong Khloe who married a big deal basketball player and he turned into a giant crackhead among the knuckleheads.
	And little Kim, who's been married as often as most of us have been manicured? She also once married a basketball player. She had a 10-hour wedding and 10-minute marriage, turning him into a 9-foot high wimpy laughing stock.
	PHOTOS: KIM KARDASHIAN ENGAGED TO KANYE WEST: INSIDE THEIR VERY PUBLIC ROMANCE
	BROKE BIKE MANHATTAN
	So how is it possible that Citi Bikes — a program that has encouraged all manner of non-riders to dangerously take to the streets of New York — hasn't generated one penny in profits for the city?
	Mayor Billionberg of course, says it's working well nonetheless. Really? Would he say that about a program at his own company? No.
	If he really wants to propose something that would give him a legacy of anything other than that of joy-killer, one that would bring the city the kind of bucks he already has, he should push to legalize pot and gambling. Oh wait, never mind. Too much fun.
	CALL IT PERVERT ISLAND
	The arrest of repulsive, revolting formerly important rock jock Dave Herman, nailed in a sting while trying to solicit sex with a 6-year old girl he wanted to bring to the Virgin Islands is enough to make this leftie turn severely right. Well, at least on the death penalty issue. And what's with the Virgin Islands? Is it the name or is it because convicted child sex pervert bazillionaire Jeffrey Epstein owns his own private island there?
	HAIR, HAIR! THIS LADY FINDS A CURE 'FORE' BALDNESS
	A woman with more hair than a Yeti got a grant from Pakistan to find a cure for baldness by using the leftover foreskins from circumcised infants.
	And she found one. A cure, I mean. Last week Columbia University announced that researcher Dr. Angela Christiano, of the bizarrely gigantic 'do, discovered the cure for a specific kind of baldness.
	It's tremendous news, provided that bald people don't mind having a foreskin forehead. Of course, foreskin-head gives new meaning to the term, ah, well, never mind. This is a family newspaper, after all.
	My mind reels with questions:
	If you saw a stranger with your son's foreskin for hair, would you immediately recognize his scalp?
	Doesn't Pakistan have more troublesome things to worry about than baldness, like say, the A-bomb?
	Did Dr. Christiano actually clone the hairdo of "Ancient Aliens" star Giorgio Tsoukalos onto her own head?
	RELATED: STASI: TEA PARTY THUGS COST AMERICA BIG
	SPIES LIKE US
	The NSA has been accused of "intercepting" the mobile phone calls of 35 world leaders, not to mention 70 million calls of French, and God knows how many other foreign citizens. What a waste of money! They could have ridden any city bus any day of the week and listened to millions of annoying foreigners yelling on their cellphones for a measly $2.50.