Having struggled to break into music as a youngster, Gavin Herlihy turned his hand to writing and became a journalist, which in turn helped facilitate a move back into music - first DJing and, eventually, production. He's certainly not the only music journo to have ever made the transition from writing about it to making it (or juggling both professions), but he's been making strides in terms of his musical output in recent months.Towards the end of last year his track 'Endless Feeling' received plenty of positive feedback from top DJs within the house scene and he continues to put out quality music on some of the top labels, including Crosstown Rebels and Leftroom. Gavin is also in a relationship with Laura Jones, a fellow DJ/producer (and writer) who is also flying high at the moment, so it's safe to say music dominates his life day in, day out. Here's what he had to say for himself...When did first start to take music seriously and who/what were you key influences?Some of my earliest memories involve listening to my family's vinyl collection as a kid or my dad's tapes in the car so I've always been consumed by music. I started with piano tuition which finished abruptly when the elderly nun who instructed me accused me of being the incarnation of the devil and I settled on learning to play guitar for various bands instead at the age of 13. A year later I stole away from home in small town Ireland with a couple of friends to go to Reading festival. We couldn't afford a ticket so we crawled in under a gate right into the security compound and into the festival. That night some older ravers from our town arrived in the middle of the night after driving across Europe from a festival in Greece so we gave them our tent to sleep in for the night. They repaid the favour by taking us to a party where we discovered electronic music properly and it's all rolled from there.Unfortunately, in Ireland at the time (before the Internet had taken hold) there were no radio stations playing dance music and my local record shop's best attempt at contemporary music was a token Bon Jovi album. I survived instead on a diet of tapes recorded from a jungle pirate radio station overheard during my trip to the UK before visiting my first underground record shop in Dublin a couple of years later and bought a twelve from Laurent Garnier which contains one of my all time favourite tracks - Laurent Garnier - Flashback (Laboritoire remix).How did you first get involved in writing?Around the age of 19 I worked out that the various bands I'd been in weren't going anywhere for all the usual reasons. This was a pretty crushing realization and I decided to fall back on writing as a Plan B. Conveniently, my journalism degree course placed me right in the lion's mouth of club culture in the late 1990s just as the whole superclub boom kicked off so I was pretty much swept away with the rave tide.What were some of your early journalism jobs like? I'll be quite honest in that I completely blagged my first few writing jobs. I lucked out with an internship at CNN in Atlanta at the tender age of twenty and, while there, emailed various newspaper editors back in Ireland and the UK with story ideas. These editors obviously didn't question my credentials any further than reading my CNN email address and my first few features were spreads in the Scotsman, Atlanta Journal Constitution and The Irish Independent. On finishing my degree I was all set for a career in journalism. Out of the blue I had a request to fill in for some absent staff at Mixmag, spent a week in the office, discovered that a career in hard news wasn't going to be half as much fun and pestered the Mixmag staff with enough ideas until they offered me a full-time job.So I guess that's where your journalistic and musical aspirations become intertwined?Yeah, I started reviewing first techno and then house for Mixmag as well as becoming the Music Editor for a period, amongst other editorial roles, and started to DJ in clubs. My dormant musical inclinations suddenly awoke with a bang and in 2005 I started to teach myself to produce. I signed my first record, Machine Ate My Homework to Moodmusic in 2006 and in 2007 quit my job and moved to Berlin to give it my best shot.What about producing, was that another logical step after DJing?Production was a logical step although my approach was completely illogical. I moved to Berlin with very little knowledge - I didn't even know how to use a sampler and was really making records by feeling around in the dark with synths and drum machines to find the right sounds. I was adamant that if I was to develop my own style I had to teach myself which involved many pain staking months of scouring manuals for answers. I could have saved a lot of time by just asking my producer friends for instruction of course so it was definitely a case of taking the longer road unnecessarily. At the time the recession was also kicking in so gigs were short in supply and my time in Berlin was spent being ruthlessly skint and literally making music to put food on the table which in this age of illegal downloading is not exactly the most lucrative of career moves.I can imagine! So, have you picked up any important nuggets of advice so far in your life?My dad gave me a really important piece of advice. He said if you  move to Berlin make sure you have a castle to formulate your ideas from  and retreat to if things aren't going well. I never really listened to  his advice and lived in a stark and barren high-ceilinged flat in one of  Berlin's poorest areas with a Metallica T-shirt wearing neighbour whose favourite pastime seemed to be trying to get us  evicted for noise complaints.What's the most difficult aspect of your career? And what do you love most?The most difficult aspect is the constant emotional yoyo effect we endure. Dance music is a cut-throat business where you're only as good as your last record; illegal downloading has made it impossible to survive from royalties alone and our futures are always cloaked with uncertainty so my career choice has definitely been the source of many sleepless nights. At the same time though this uncertainty is what drives me to succeed and has made me an infinitely stronger person in the process.I am in control of my own life and not at the mercy of an employer and ultimately being paid to follow my passion and communicate my love of music to other people which is a very satisfying honour. Some may snipe that my job as a DJ is valueless but I really believe that people use the dancefloor as an environment to release their emotions and work through the stresses they accumulate through the week. I take pride in being a part of that therapeutic process and it informs the music that I play.'Endless Feeling' got a great response from all and sundry, how does it feel to have so much positive feedback? It's always a pleasure to have people connecting with you on any level when making or playing music. It's nice to be appreciated for hard work after all! There wasn't really much of an idea behind the track as such. It came about from a studio jam session. I was inspired by the current music climate of synth-laden hooks and as I've always been better at writing melodies than playing with samples something clicked on that particular day and out it came.What's it like having a partner who's involved in the same industry as you?It's great. We live together and share a studio so our lives are spent hanging out at home during the week working, listening and talking about ideas and music and then tootling off to our respective gigs on the weekend. I think our lifestyles would be difficult to sustain if we were in different professions. The way things are, we have a similar rhythm and it helps to keep us inspired and motivated.Any advice for someone considering getting into a) journalism and b) DJing and producing??Ideas are the currency of both professions. If you want to be a journalist get a degree and then badger your target publication with great ideas until they have no choice but to commission you. Similar applies to music. There is a sea of people making copycat music. Think about what your musical message is and what you want to say and say something different. ARs are sick of hearing soundalike drivel so go the extra mile and hit them with something fresh that works on the dancefloor.

Finally, do you find it difficult doing interviews like this and switching off your 'journo head'?I've always been able to express my thoughts with words so I don't find interviews hard unless they ask the same, unimaginative questions over and over again. Then it gets a little tedious but otherwise it's a pleasure and a nice change to be on the other side of the fence.Gavin Herlihy's latest release Witching Hour is available HERE and you can catch him playing at MULLETOVER and JUST JACK in the coming weeks.