When I think of books by Iain Sinclair, I think not just of the plump, respectable lead title hardbacks from Granta and Hamish Hamilton that have been coming with happy regularity the last decade and a half, and neither of the well-thumbed Vintage paperbacks that I first read him in, but also of the strange little oddments that I've tended to pick up whenever I see them, the broadsides and offcuts and occasional pieces that are as much part of his modus operandi as the full-on novels and non-fiction excursions - and, indeed, as the limited run numbered, lettered, exclusive editions that tend to pop in the wake of the big players.The ones of these I can find to hand are:

Four of those are publishers I probably own no other books by, whose presence on my shelves is solely down to someone like Sinclair passing things on to them. God help the bibliographer, etc.What I didn't expect to find, however, in the Sinclair bibliography, was a coffee table book. And yet that's what we have in 70×70, published by King Mob, in association with Volcano and Purge. (King Mob I do have something else from: the spoken word CD of sections of Downriver that gets mentioned in one of Sinclair's interviews in this book: "A empty studio, a microphone, the book. I blagged it. And Paul Smith vanished again. The CD duly appeared. And disappeared.")70×70, subtitled Unlicensed Preaching: A Life Unpacked in 70 Films, is an accompaniment to the year-long project, undertaken to mark his 70th birthday, in which Sinclair screened 70 films that had informed his writing, in suitably random/inevitable places across London. (He describes the process in a recent LRB diary.)

What you get in 70×70 is a walk through those films, which run from the odd acknowledged classic (Touch of Evil, The Long Good Friday), to the variously forgotten (Candy Mountain, directed by Robert Frank, The Lineup by Don Siegel), to plenty of curios too off-beat to be even cult fodder (The Bridegroom, the Actress and the Pimp, the work of Sinclair's various collaborators and co-walkers - Chris Petit, Catling again) and films that he himself was involved in - The Falconer, The Cardinal and the Corpse, etc.From a design point of view, what is interesting about the book, beyond its uncharacteristic invitation to flip through and browse (the book is 288×215mm -near enough the traditional film or video aspect ratio; widescreen, you feel, would have been pushing it too far) rather than, as is usually the case with Sinclair books, to tilt ever closer to the page, drawn in by the dense rattling and scattergun sentences, till you fall in and are lost to another man's worldview, another man's underworld knowledge, another man's paranoia...

What is interesting from a purely design point of view is that the first part of the book, which lists the films, keeps the text to the right hand or recto pages, while the left-hand or versos have collaged, overlapping film stills... all of which go uncaptioned and uncredited.Seeing as plenty of these films are obscure, to say the least - beyond obscure, some of them - captions would have been useful, but then you get the sense that that's the point. Films have skitted through the century, like they skittered through the lives of people of Sinclair's and my generations, never quite fixing themselves down.

Once upon a time, films were big and solid, seen on screens in brick buildings called cinemas, but at the same time ephemeral - miss the showing, and the film's gone until it pops up again in the Time Out listings you'd scour every Wednesday. Then came VHS, then DVD, with their solidities and frailties of a different order. Now these too have been swept away, and all kinds of filmic oddments end up on YouTube, or sites like UbuWeb, where they exist in reach but more unreal than ever.So Sinclair seems to be saying: why caption these film stills? You wouldn't caption memories, or dreams. Or perhaps he's leaving the identification to the reader, as a test, just as Christian Marclay's The Clock leaves the identification of the films quoted to the viewer. You know as much as you recognise. If you want to know more, well, it's out there, somewhere, waiting - in that classic Sinclair trope - to be reforgotten.***Addendum: "God help the bibliographer, etc.," I wrote, in this post, and then I received an email, from Jeff Johnson, with this praise/confession: "Your statement was spot on... I know this,  because that bibliographer is me."Johnson went on to tell me that, having stumbled across Sinclair around the time of Downriver - and already being an inveterate collector of modern first editions - he became smitten, and has since acquired a sizable number of the man's books. Moreover: "For the past  year-and-three-quarters I have been engaged in working with Iain on compiling an  exhaustive bibliography of his oeuvre," which task is adumbrated in a chapbook, the wittily titled Cite Scout for the Territory, from Beat Scene Press, a characteristically Sinclair-ish publisher. Well, I ponied up my £7.95 and now have this addition to my entirely modest Sinclair shelf. The chapbook takes the form of an inteview with Johnson, in which he talks about his relationship to Sinclair's books, and his travails trying to track down their details. Johnson is an American, which is an entirely appropriate twist or double-back in the tale, seeing as Sinclair himself was so inspired by the Beats and Black Mountain poets. The book, as you might expect, is a tale of fruitless schleps, unlikely fortuities (the Rev Richard Coles puts in a cameo) and details of some of the more outre entries in the Sinclair catalogue.