
	Last week was a big one for bigotry and the bigots who profit from it.
	The final score: The Oneidas hate the "Redskins," Al Sharpton hates Barneys, the Wiccans hate Halloween, and everyone hates Julianne Hough.
	Let's begin with the Redskins and the huge press frenzy created by Oneida Indian casino chief Ray Halbritter, who says the name "Redskins" is an offense and a civil rights issue.
	Well, you may be surprised, or maybe not, to know that some Oneidas swear that Halbritter has caused them to have civil rights issues.
	New York Assemblywoman Claudia Tenney, who represents Oneida tribal member Melvin Phillips and his family pro bono against Halbritter in what she called a land-grab situation from "a much-feared, megalomaniacal, despotic casino kingpin — who is only one-quarter Indian but not a member of the Six Nations Oneida tribe."
	RELATED: STASI: BARNEYS, MACY'S INCIDENTS SHOW THE DANGERS OF SHOPPING WHILE BLACK
	Halbritter's team has consistently denied all of Tenney's claims.
	But it's best not to bring it up. Last week Halbritter had Assemblywoman Tenney thrown out of his anti-Redskins press conference for raising the issue.
	"Organized crime couldn't have come up with a better scam than Halbritter's got going," Tenney said.
	Phillips, who is a full-blooded Oneida, might dislike Halbritter but, ironically, does not dislike the Redskins' name. "I don't mind it at all," he said. "Next, they'll even take us off the (old) nickels and no one will know what we did or who we are."
	Speaking of civil rights for fun and profit, no one smells out bigotry and big bucks like the Rev. Al Sharpton, who's never met a mogul he didn't like. To this end, last week Sharpton met with possibly the world's whitest man, embattled Barneys CEO Mark Lee, to discuss Barneys' shop and frisk disaster. Jay Z, disgracefully, was nowhere to be seen.
	Just don't be surprised if Rev. Al ends up with a seat on the Barneys board.
	And how about that Julianne Hough, huh? The "Dancing With the Stars" alum was branded a racist for dressing up for Halloween as Crazy Eyes, her favorite character from "Orange is the New Black." Since Crazy Eyes is black, Hough donned, well, not blackface exactly, more like deep tan-face, and was immediately set upon by the media.
	Question: Why is it wrong to make up your face to look darker, but donning a black mask of a famous person like say, President Obama, on Halloween is OK?
	PHOTOS: STARS ON HALLOWEEN 2013: SPOOKIEST CELEBRITY COSTUMES
	Ellen DeGeneres, who knows from discrimination, made sure to follow the PC rules when she dressed up as Nicki Minaj on Halloween — without dark makeup. The end result? Ellen did not look like Minaj. She looked like a scary white hooker.
	Finally, even witches complained last week about discrimination. Apparently dressing like a traditional witch on Halloween is a nasty stereotype. Stop stereotyping witches now — or you might end up being turned into a frog.
	PHOTOS: NICKI MINAJ ON INSTAGRAM: HER MOST OUTRAGEOUS PHOTOS
	SLOP AND FRISK
	Stop-and-frisk was thrown into turmoil when an appeals court threw out the judge, but not the case. And the way that the court ripped Judge Shira Scheindlin's robes into shreds has sent other judges around the city and state reaching for defibrillators.
	According to one very top city official who said he'd better remain anonymous or I could find myself in front of a judge: "In all my years in the legal field, none of us has ever seen an appellate court excoriate another judge in this fashion."
	Scheindlin — who is not the long-lost twin of Judge Judy — overstepped her bounds by telling a plaintiff that if he thought he was being racially profiled, he should file a separate, "related" lawsuit that she would hear and accept. Oops. He did and she did, and then she talked to the media — an accusation she denies. Sloppy, sloppy.
	So what is the bottom line for us? For now, you can be stopped and frisked — unless you are a woman parading around topless in public. (See what's off limits on top, below.)
	TOPLESS PAYS TOP DOLLAR
	Performance artist Holly Van Voast — who couldn't get herself arrested before she started going topless all over the city, and hasn't stopped getting arrested since — has won a suit against the NYPD which cost us taxpayers a total of $77,500 in damages and court costs. Imagine what artistic heights she could have reached if she had walked around without her pants?
	Van Voast's attorney Ron Kuby (of course) put this tremendous waste of our money into perspective: "Now the NYPD has been properly instructed as to the proper handling of bare breasts." Who knew cops had such a problem?
	THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING BAYWATCH BABE
	Pamela Anderson came out of semi-obscurity missing forty inches. That's twenty off the hair and what looked like an equal number of inches off her ever-changing bust line. Maybe it's the clothes, but if not, it's no wonder she's running the marathon today — maybe it's the first time she can run unimpeded by implants the size of lunar modules. If the earth doesn't crack when she runs by, we'll know for sure, she's implant-free once more.
	PHOTOS: PAMELA ANDERSON CHOPS LOCKS FOR PIXIE CUT: HOLLYWOOD HAIR CHAMELEONS
	AN UNHEALTHY STATE OF AFFAIRS
	Health and Inhuman Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius fell on the scalpel this week, mumbling and fumbling and trying to explain what went so horribly wrong with the Obamacare technology.
	Sebilius admitted that the website was slow, not reliable and not functioning as expected — sort of like Congress but without the filibustering.
	She also admitted that they hadn't done enough pre-testing. It's a health site for God's sake! Imagine if your doctor told you after surgery that you weren't functioning because he hadn't done enough pre-op testing?
	I blame Canada for the whole mess. We have so many tech geniuses in this country, they are falling all over each other like lawyers, but for this giant undertaking our government looked to Canada! Who thinks Montreal when you can think Silicon Valley?
	The Obamas, that's who.
	Worse, the Canadian-based tech firm that designed this mess, CGI, also happens to employ, according to The Daily Caller, Toni Townes-Whitley, a senior VP who was a classmate of Michelle Obama's at Princeton.
	Damn! Canada hasn't been this involved with us since the French and Indian war. Vive la Canada!
	RELATED: STASI: TEA PARTY THUGS COST AMERICAN ECONOMY $24 BILLION WITH GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
	WHO'S SNOWING THE SNOWMAN NOW?
	Five minutes after NSA leaker Edward Snowden got a legitimate job in Russia, he appealed to the U.S. for clemency. Maybe his new boss won't let him take long coffee breaks, two-hour lunches, steal and leak top secret information, or opt out of Russia's mandatory medical plan, although God knows he could use a good (free) shrink.