This in lieu of a full post, a favourite cover pulled at random from the shelves: This edition of Stendhal's A Roman Journal, from Collier Books, published in 1961, the year, so the internet tells me, that the imprint was swallowed up into Macmillan.Which is a shame, as it's a charming paperback imprint - still standing up very well, in terms of paper and spine, over 40 years on. I really like the layout, the ratio and dimensions of the band across the centre, the 'torn paper' edge to the illustration, and the distribution of the text down the right hand side - but, most of all, what I love is the size and prominence of the publisher logo. Is this there a publisher who went bigger, bolder, prouder with their insignia? I can't think of one off-hand (and would love to hear if anyone can offer a suggestion).Having a quick trawl for other examples of Collier books, however, I find - as well as a few other examples of this series, classics all - that I already own one other of their books, bought, like the Stendhal, as much for the cover as the contents. It's an edition of The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe with the most psychedelic, 1960s-redolent design imaginable. (Definitely bought for the cover, this one: I'm no fan of the Narnia series at all.)Frankly, it looks like an outtake from the Yellow Submarine film, Art Deco on acid, with the Pevensie boys in Beatles crops and flared jeans, and all the children snug in their fur coat-like dressing gowns.The illustration is by Roger Hane, who is probably best known for his covers for Carlos Castenada, the archetypically late-60s/early-70s shamanistic bestseller. Hane died young, at 36, after being violently robbed in Central Park in 1974, so it's impossible to know if he could have grown out of now what seems like a highly dated style.The Lion, Witch cover has got a definite charm about it, but I was shocked to discover, on looking further, that some of the other covers for Collier's Narnia series are, quite simply, shockingly bad.

The Magician's Nephew, with its girl being caught by the hair, and the boy barely visible against the trees, and the... thing coming out of the lake, is enough to give any child nightmares, whereas the very strange looking Aslan (and even stranger patterned horse) on The Horse and His Boy are just appalling.I haven't found much online to show what Collier Books got up to and apart from these two series. What a strange combination!