The book covers that have been flying around the internet this week have been those of Faber's new list of 'Modern Classics', which will hit the shelves next April. Before then, of course, we have Picador's own 'Classics' list, arriving in January, while we also have recently had a smaller Classics list from Serpent's Tail (covered on this blog here).The question, also touched on previously, and succinctly articulated by book vlogger William Rycroft on Twitter, is this: "Ok, so EVERYONE is announcing new (modern) classics lists. Is this just a rebranding of the back catalogue or am I missing something?"Rebranding and relaunching, whether it's an individual author, or a list, or an imprint, is an increasingly important part of publishing. You might characterise it thus: the ever-increasing number of new books appearing every year, coupled with our supposedly, presumably, avowedly shortening attention spans, means the publishers have to work doubly hard to remind us of the books they published twenty, ten or even two years ago.So while I look to any one of these new lists as a design opportunity - to brighten our shelves, and give bookshop space to neglected gems - that look is necessarily tinged with a prejudicial cynicism. How is a Classics list different from a backlist? Are these all, really 'classics'? What is a classic, anyway? And when does it become a 'modern' one? The Faber books run from 1936 (Barnes) to 1990 (Kureshi), while the Picadors, necessarily, are all from after 1972, when the publisher emerged, meaning that most of Faber's 'modern classics' are older than Picadors' 'classics'. And don't even ask about the various potential overlaps between Penguin's Classics and Modern Classics list, because that gives me a headache to even think about.And yes I'll admit that when I think of 'classics' and 'modern classics', I think, by default, of Penguin. This might be unfair on other publishers, but then Penguin has spent decades establishing its classics and modern classics as the go-to lists, lavishing editorial, design and production effort on making them the editions that I, and I should think many people, reach for. In short, I think of Penguin Classics - and, to a lesser extent, the Modern Classics - as a canon, rather than a list.I'm not in the position to guess how much of this is pure cultural benevolence on Penguin's part, but there aren't many people who are publishing the breadth of pre-Twentieth Century literature that they do, with the attendant editing - notes, introductions, appendices and the like.As for looks, there is a definite similarity between the newly-released covers of the Faber Modern Classics and the current look of the Penguin Modern Classics, the third new iteration of the latter since the mint-green covers I grew up with. Both have a featured image below a generous block of white; both give author and title in clean, sans-serif fonts (black for the author, grey for the title in both, though Faber capitalise the author; Avant Garde for Penguin, the Helvetica-like Swiss for Faber) Both stick the logo and list name up at the top; both slip in a short additional piece of text, though for Faber this is a quote from the book, whereas for Penguin it's an appreciative quote.
The main addition for Faber is a transparent strap of colour - rather like a lighting gel - running most but not all of the way from left right over the border of the image and white space: a colour taken, in the words of Donna Payne, Faber's art director, who oversaw the series design, from "the Faber palette".Put a random Faber next to a random Penguin Modern Classic and the dash of colour marks out the Faber, but I bet you a table display of PMCs looks better than one of FMCs.The stripe certainly works well with images such as the naff sofa on The Buddha of Suburbia, but I'm not really sure that TS Eliot or Djuna Barnes are well served by this approach. In the mid-90s Faber celebrated their history with The Faber Library, a uniform series of jacketed hardbacks, with no flashy design, but just simple, austere presentation. I have to say, I only have a couple of these, and it's hard to track down a complete listing of them (they're not mentioned in the Eighty Years of Book Cover Design retrospective nor anywhere on the Faber website) but at least three of the books on the Modern Classics list were also in the Library.Faber's is a bright and breezy approach - and these are books with pedigree, no doubt about it - but it does look, too, more like a way of pushing the backlist than establishing a list within a list, which is what the Library did. Compare this, though, to Picador, whose Classics list is starting with a whopping 24 titles from the publisher's back catalogue. Here though there is no grand series design, beyond the 'Picador Classic' brand, slipped vertically into the upper or lower right hand side.Now, there are some great books on the list, but equally there are some merely pretty good books, too. And the covers are all over the place. Some are tricksy reboots (American Psycho), some of them lazy approximations (the cover for The Line of Beauty makes the original seem even more of a classic by comparison).Some of them - eg William Fiennes' The Snow Geese - are hardly different from the existing paperback cover, while others (the strange quasi-stained glass look given to Graham Swift's Waterland) seem jarringly wrong. All told, there's no real sense that the designs are being used to push the books at new readers, as you might say Ariel is in the Faber Classics list. (An interesting case in point: the Faber website lists four other editions of the collection currently for sale, but this one, with its pictorial cover, is a definite shift in direction from the others.)Most of the Picador books come with new introductions, that other mainstay of the 'classic' reissue, so we get Sebastian Faulks on Alan Hollinghurst's The Line of Beauty, Irvine Welsh on American Psycho, Jeanette Winterson on Carol Ann Duffy's The World's Wife, and so on, plus, for some of them, Afterwords by the authors. This is perhaps something to make you pick a book up in a shop, but introductions only take you so far. Here's Colm Toibin on John Banville's excellent The Book of Evidence - oh, and here's Banville on John Lanchester's The Debt to Pleasure.
As for the Fabers, about half of the launch list of 10 books do come with either introductions, afterwords or essays, plus "readers notes" (which sound scarily like the book group nonsense you get at the back of some paperbacks) and, "where possible, facsimile material from the Faber archive".All this 'material' will have to be seen to be judged, but certainly I can't help thinking that introductions have gone from being contextual academic essays - as in a Penguin Classic or Everyman's Library - to something akin to a fan letter from a famous name, an expanded cover quote that doubles up, quite possibly, as an entry in the introducing author's forthcoming collected journalism.All this, though, is based on pre-released cover imagery. Just as the nature and quality of the promised additional material will go towards our sense of how 'classic' these classic series are, so too will our estimation of whether it's been gifted the production it deserves. After all, part of the point of a classic is that, seeing as the damn thing has managed to last this far through the depredations of time and changing fashions, it should be made to look like it's made for the ages. Picador do promise this, with "high quality paper and thick cover boards", go to make the books a "celebration of the physical book". So, all judgements suspended. The books have got to feel, as well as look, and read, like classics.