The first thing to note about this book - picked up in a charity shop for 95p - is what good condition it is in, ripped dust jacket aside (worse on the back than on the front - and ignore the dark vertical stripe: dodgy scan), for one printed in 1956. The paper hardly faded, the boards still firm, though slightly warped, the binding strong, the print clear as day. So well done, Chatto  Windus.But it's the cover that appeals most directly, done by John Woodcock, a noted calligrapher and engraver who studied at the Royal College of Art before and after the Second World War. The by-hand lettering is beautifully done, in a slightly distressed style that either suggests or actually is a woodcut - I'm no expert - but it is weighted on the page in a manner that seems to date it instantly.The title seems too far to the left, the 'kerning' (if you can call it that) wobbly, and I can't help thinking that, today, 'Personal Recollections' would be in lower case, with the author's name in upper.Then there's the drawing, which reappears as frontispiece (as a plate, in fact, along with half a dozen others), where it is given a full caption: "Roger Fry and the author / A cartoon by Max Beerbohm / By kind permission of Mr. Ronald Searle". In fact it's Fry we see face on. Bell is the rounder, balding person on the right, hand disappearing inside jacket pocket. While it's hardly flattering to either of them, you have to wonder what Fry, the critic who introduced modern art to Britain, would have thought of its so prominent use. He comes out of its worse.The text that you can see scrawled in the bottom left hand corner is supposedly the conversation they are having, and reads: "Mr Clive Bell: I always think that when one feels one's been carrying a theory too far, then's the time to carry it a little further. Mr Roger Fry: A little? Good heavens, man! Are you growing old?"Bell - who in this book is offering his memories of people such as Fry, Virginia Woolf and TS Eliot - is best known for his aesthetic concept of 'significant form': "lines and colours combined in a particular way, certain forms and relations of forms, stir our aesthetic emotions. These relations and combinations of lines and colours, these aesthetically moving forms, I call 'Significant Form'; and 'Significant form' is the one quality common to all works of visual art."Should we look for Significant Form in this book jacket? Well, yes and no. Book jackets are not works of art; they are design artefacts; they have a job to do, which is to act as the meeting place between creative enterprise (the book contained inside) and the market. Thus it follows a fashion, and a history, quite independent of the narrative arc of art history. And thus we can say that the formal properties of this book jacket seem at once entirely wrong - for now - and all the righter for it.