
	George Zimmerman is to this decade what Bernie Goetz was to the '80s — a menace to society.
	Both men are tough guys when they have guns and cowardly nerds when they aren't packing.
	Both wounded or killed black teens when they felt threatened, which turned their obscure Norman Bates existences into those of folk heroes — to some.
	Both men testified that they had felt threatened and had stood their ground. Goetz shot the kids on the subway in 1984. Zimmerman shot a teenager in a gated subdivision in Florida in 2012. Goetz's gun was unlicensed; Zimmerman's firearm was legal.
	Goetz left four kids seriously wounded — one paralyzed and brain-damaged. Zimmerman left one dead.
	Three of the four unarmed boys shot by Goetz went on to lives of crime, while Zimmerman's victim, 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, went into the ground for wearing a hoodie while being black and packing candy in a gated community.
	Both men, through their actions, divided the country not just into black and white, but also into those for and against gun rights.
	Their violence made both of these cowards unlikely symbols for vigilante justice among a population — especially back in the 1980s — that felt unprotected by the justice system, a system that, then and now, too often lets the bad guys get away with murder.
	The real problem with these two "Death Wish" folk heroes, however, is that they have become criminals themselves. Goetz and Zimmerman have become just the kinds of men they would have shot and killed if they'd encountered themselves on a street or the subway.
	Bernie Goetz apparently has turned into a drug-dealing lowlife who was nailed a few weeks ago for allegedly selling pot to a narc in a park.
	George Zimmerman, who had a history of domestic violence before killing Trayvon, has, since his trial and acquittal four months ago, been held by cops twice for domestic violence and stopped three times for traffic violations.
	Let's be clear here about Zimmerman. He's a two-dollar thug who is armed and dangerous. On Monday, he allegedly threatened to shoot his new girlfriend with one of the guns in his arsenal.
	The fact that he's out and about causing chaos among us isn't because his trial was about his rights or even about rights and wrongs in general. George Zimmerman is loose because the wrong prosecutor dropped the ball against the right defense attorney, who caught it.
	Ironically, both the Goetz and Zimmerman cases came down to exactly what people like Zimmerman and Goetz were supposedly fighting against in the first place — the lack of punishment for violent offenders.
	Zimmerman's acquittal on murder and manslaughter charges unleashed a can't-lose attitude in this crazy, vicious coward who happened to be loaded for bear and bearing arms. He had an AR-15 and two handguns and wasn't afraid to use them. At least the judge in his latest case is taking the weapons away.
	And Goetz? He was always a weird social misfit and clearly he hasn't tempered with age.
	I don't believe that we as a society should wholesale lose the right to keep and bear arms — despite my personal feelings — but vigilante justice?
	These creeps aren't folk hero "Death Wish" characters. They're a couple of misfits with death wishes. Just pray you don't end up on their holiday wish lists.