This is a cover that has been bumping around on the bookish corners of the web for a while now, and I had been quietly admiring it as an example of eye-catching illustration matched with a serious, respectful design aesthetic, that refuses to upstage the work of the illustrator... until I realised I hadn't been looking very closely at it at all.
Jeffrey Alan Love's black and white drawing of a wolf, adorning Simon Ings' novel Wolves, is hiding a secret: look carefully at its chest and jaw, and you'll see - unless, unlike me, you're observant and have already seen it - the figure of a man, cut out in negative. Wolf/man. Man/wolf.I haven't yet read the book, so can't really comment on exactly how this relationship or metaphor plays out in its story, but it certainly lays out a set of intriguing possibilities. Which, really, is the job of a cover: to suggest possible contents, without tying down any one of them.Which, as it turns out, is sort of how Ings sees it, too, as he said when I asked him about the cover:I asked Ings how much input he got in the choice of illustrator:Which lack of leverage I find ironic, because Ings (who edits the New Scientist-linked fiction magazine Arc Infinity, and so knows the process from the other side, too) is an astute critic of design matters, and went on to voice exactly some of my own thoughts about the current state of book design:And here is the story of the design process, from the designer's side - and not just for 'Wolves'; he has produced a covers for five more books from Ings' backlist.
In fact, Love's website shows quite a wide range of styles ("The thought of having to find one  method of working, one visual "style" within which to make my work, fills me with dread") - though all of them generally recognisable as coming from the same pen. The first category in the site menu is Fantasy and Science Fiction, though none of it generically so - which must have been a draw for Gollancz, as Ings is a writer who sits very much on the border of sci-fi and literature, sometimes dipping more into one, sometimes more into the other, and this backlist redesign seems clearly intended by Gollancz to go some way to destroying that dichotomy in bookbuyers' minds.They are a very nice bunch of covers. There's something of Ted Hughes' The Iron Man to that Hotwire, and - though this wasn't a book of Hughes's  that he illustrated - Love credits Leonard Baskin as a stylistic influence to this series. (Baskin illustrated other Hughes books, most famously Crow.)

It does seem a particularly good match between author, publisher and illustrator, as acknowledged both by Love (" I was a fan of Mr. Ings before this job came along and was thrilled not only to get to do the covers but also to read the manuscript before the book was released") and Ings:A final word to Love, who said, kind of not at all answering one of my questions, and all the more touching for that:Which is just it, isn't it? Books facing out isn't just something that happens in bookshops. It should happen at home, too.