
	Usually it's the kids who are doomed to repeat the mistakes of their parents, but in the case of the two worst mothers on Planet Earth, Dina Lohan and Kris Jenner, it's the opposite.
	These dopey moms are emulating the worst of their daughters—and that's saying a lot.
	First we had to hear last week via a TV/viral video/you name it, that Mrs. Kardashian-Jenner told her kids she made a sex tape with her husband, Mrs. Bruce Jenner.
	Bruce used to be a great-looking Olympic gold medalist, but he then tragically transformed himself, through the miracle of cosmetic surgery, into what looks like a male lesbian. Jenner, like the rest of the Kardashians, was born without the gene for shame, and still insists on calling himself "the world's greatest athlete."  (Note to Jenner: No — that earring does not make you look like a pirate!)
	Luckily, the truly frightening and annoying TMI announcement of these two having sex on tape was followed by the equally important, earth-shattering announcement that said tape had been mercifully destroyed.
	While it is impossible that the Kardashians have ever committed anything to tape that they haven't tried to sell for big bucks, it is possible that A) even sleazy jailbird Joe Francis didn't want it or, B) the tape was so ashamed it threw itself into the garbage. Don't think about it. Really.
	What with all that sex they apparently have, the only thing we can all pray for is that Kris is past being able and willing to procreate and produce any more K kids. But in truth, Mrs.  Mrs. Kardashian Jenner look like the Obamas compared to the horrific parenting skills of the DWI-loving parents, Dina and Michael Lohan.
	Either those funster Lohans just can't resist orange, or they can't stay sober long enough to stay out of jail.
	On Thursday night, mother Dina, whose daughter Lindsay is just weeks out of rehab herself, took a drive on Long Island on the Northern State Parkway after knocking back a few. Scratch that, knocking back a lot.
	Dina was crazy drunk, although in her mug shot, she also looks just plain crazy.   Dina Fully Loaded was stopped going 77 mph in a 55 zone, managing to make twice the legal limit .20 on a Breathalyzer. Way to go Dina!
	These parents all should have been stopped a long time ago, before they were allowed to twist their kids and exploit them beyond repair. But exploiting their kids didn't stop momangers Dina and Kris from wanting to also be their famous daughters. Sex tape, check. Drunken driving, check.
	Thing is these daughters have become adults who are either washed up at a young age, or stupidly famous for no reason. Lohan, who is a damned good actor, has hardly had a hit since "Mean Girls." And Kim K? She got famous for making a sex tape and shopping for a living, and now her baby daddy is in trouble again.
	Her fullback sister Khloe is famous for well, no reason at all. And now Khloe is dealing with (alleged!) crack husband, Lamar Odom, whose sleazoid dealer won't even have anything to do with him anymore. At least he's not driving on the Northern State.
	None of these people should be parenting, let alone achieve fame for being parents.
	What will Kim, Khloe and Lindsay do to imitate their kids? What's left? Don't ask.
	So what do you get for $13 million these days? Not much.
	With that dough, you could spend 288 nights in the Beanie Baby Suite at the Four Seasons hotel, maybe bid on Steve McQueen's $11 million ride from the flop flick, "Le Mans."
	If, however, you're the city of New York, you'll take $13 mil and stage a runoff election between Public Advocate candidates Daniel Squadron and Letitia James — even if there's not a mayoral runoff.
	That's $10.7 million more than the public advocate's whole yearly budget! So we will now waste $13 million bucks in order for tens of people to vote in shower stalls that were built for Aristotle, for an office that investigates waste and failings in city agencies. Seriously?
	And when (I doubt it) you once again step into those ancient booths — that cost millions to store and maintain — to vote for an office no one wants, just know it's because legislators demanded them so there'd be a paper trail, which the electronic voting machines would print out anyway.
	Somebody — quick — call the public advocate and report it!
	Why in hell was Vladimir Putin, whose last name sounds like Sicilian slang, given a forum by The New York Times to tell Americans about democracy, how we should restrain from brute force, and oh, yes, how the gassing of the Syrian people was done by the rebels—not Assad.
	Meantime Putin gasbagged enough in that column alone for the UN to take action.
	Masha Gessen, a Russian journalist and author of "The Man Without a Face: The Unlikely Rise of Vladimir Putin," says Putin's a brutal street thug who oppresses and jails journalists, has appointed "bosses" over elected officials (democracy at work for you!) and presides over a government rife with brutality and corruption.
	Then don't forget the new anti-gay "propaganda" law. And Snowden.
	Hopefully Sen. John McCain gives Putin the beatdown he deserves in a column he's writing for Pravda to counter Putin's posturing. Of course if Putin doesn't like it, McCain could end up rooming with Pussy Riot.
	Rudy seemed to have forgotten where he was and what was happening this 9/11. During the memorial services at Ground Zero, TV cameras panned to America's Mayor and instead of his usual heroic solemnity, he was caught yukking it up and chatting away.
	What next? Will we forget the horror and start having 9/11 white sales and family BBQ's? It's what we already do on Memorial Day, isn't it?
	Pope Francis - who likes to show what a regular guy he is - has now taken to driving around the Vatican grounds in a hand-me-down, 1984 Renault with 186,000 miles on it. Lucky it's just the Vatican grounds, since the man is nearing 80, and if you've ever driven around Boca Raton ... well, you know. In other Vatican news,
	Archbishop Pietro Parolin said that priestly celibacy is now open to discussion. Really? Clearly some priests have known that for 2,000 years. Meantime, the whole fooling around question is still closed when it comes to nuns.