THE last thing Vicky Modell wanted to do was to stand up and speak before Congress. This is especially true under the circumstances that brought her there last year, and will bring her back next week. 
  All she and her husband, Fred, ever really wanted was to have kids and raise them in peace. You know. 
  But life horribly interfered with their plans, and so, next week, the shy Manhattan mother and housewife will stand alone on the congressional floor to plead for the lives of 500,000 kids. 
  Shortly after the births of their "beautiful, perfect kids," in 1970 and 1973, both children were diagnosed with totally unrelated birth defects. The Modells had to put their daughter, Lori, severely retarded, into a special care home when she was 18 months old. Their son, Jeffrey, died at 15 of the other immune deficiency disease  Primary Immune Deficiency, (the Boy in the Bubble disease).  
  Jeffrey tried to live a regular life. He played sports and had a girlfriend and performed in the school play. But there were uncountable hospitalizations for infections, viruses, and ultimately, the one that killed him  pneumocystis pneumonia  the same kind of pneumonia that kills so many AIDS patients. 
  Like AIDS, Primary Immune Deficiency destroys the immune system. 
  Infants born with the ailment generally die of things that other children fight off  infections and viruses. 
  When Jeffrey died in 1985, the Modells only knew that no one seemed to know much about the disease. They thought it was because the condition was so rare. No doctor could ever so much as put them in touch with another family suffering from the disease. 
  To help ease the pain after Jeffrey died, the Modells created the Jeffrey Modell Foundation and asked everyone they knew for donations. "We thought we'd get maybe $10,000," said Fred. They ended up  much to their astonishment  with $300,000. It was enough to award two fellowships in immunology to Mount Sinai Medical Center. 
  Those fellowships generated a little publicity, and suddenly the dam burst. 
  People started calling, and experts started calculating, and everyone was astonished to find that half a million kids had the disease. 
  Armed with the proof, in 1993, the Modells managed to get themselves into 100 Senate offices  to plead their case for funding with senatorial aides and even some senators. 
  Because of its similarity to AIDS, some senators listened  at least for a minute or two  to some startling facts. 
  The HIV virus is estimated to afflict one in every 250 people; Primary Immune Deficiency afflicts one in every 500 children. Unlike the strong AIDS lobby, the Modells were the only ones lobbying for Primary Immune Deficiency research. 
  This was clear by the numbers: In 1994, the government had allocated more than $1.3 billion in grants for AIDS research while allocating about $1 million for Primary Immune Deficiency research. So, encouraged by Sen. Joe Lieberman(D-Conn.) and Sen. Alfonse D'Amato (R-N.Y.), last year, Vicky stood up for the first time before the Senate and asked for help. 
  "I had five minutes to tell all this sadness," said Vicky. "It was interesting because when I began speaking, half the senators looked like they were asleep. Then I mentioned immune deficiency, and their heads all shot up. They thought, 'Oh no, another strain of the AIDS virus.' " She explained that the disease is genetic, not acquired, but is just as deadly. 
  "We didn't ask them to take a dime away from the $1.3 billion for AIDS research, but there was $3 million at the periphery that could be allocated to Primary Immune Deficiency," Vicky said. "I told the senators that our foundation would put up $100,000 for every $500,000 that the government could allocate to the National Institutes of Health." 
  The proposal was presented to the NIH, which agreed to a research grant of $2.5 million for 1996. With that success, the couple went to the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, (also a federal program), whose director, Dr. Duane Alexander, pledged $2.5 million for research into genetic defects of immunity over the next five years. 
  Next week, Vicky appears before Congress. She will tell them, "This is a horrendous life for children and for their families. The families need money, but mothers can't work because their child is sick all the time. You constantly battle with insurance companies. A father can't switch jobs because his child won't be insured. I want to tell them these things, and I want to tell them to never forget there are 500,000 children who need help." 
  Who in Congress would have the nerve to ignore her?