A two part blog, this, to accompany my review of 'Roberto Bolaño: The Last Interview'. First of all, an overview of the books we have yet to come from Picador, Bolaño's UK publisher; and secondly, a brief trawl through some of the best footnotes to this most fashionable - and bloggable - of authors on the internet.For anyone who picked up on Bolaño through his two big, late novels, 'The Savage Detectives' (Independent review here) and '2666′ (Indy review), the promise of dozens more books waiting on publishers' schedules might seem like too much of a good thing. They'd probably be right. These two novels, which add up to nearly 1,500 pages in paperback, were probably his greatest achievements, epic prose works at once carefully constructed and loosely, flowingly written - as if culled from a lifetime of memories and anecdotes.And that's pretty much what they were. Here's Bolaño talking in Javier Cercas's Independent Foreign Fiction Prize-winning 'Soldiers of Salamis', where he has a crucial cameo: "To write novels you don't need an imagination. Just a memory. Novels are written by combining recollections". Also, in a talk [see below] his translator, Natasha Wimmer, quotes Bolaño's friend Rodrigo Frésan as saying that 'The Savage Detectives' is "ninety percent autobiographical".Since those two doorsteps, Picador have given us 'Amulet' (Indy review) and 'Nazi Literature of the Americas', the first one a short lyrical novel - quite close to Savage Detectives in its romantic vision of the young Mexican poets of the 60s and 70s, while more focused politically than either - and the second a strange Borgesian work that pretends to be an encyclopedia of right-wing writers from Chile to the US, but is far more moving that that blunt description would suggest.Picador have eight more Bolaño books scheduled for publication over the next three years, starting with 'The Skating Rink', in October of this year. They are reasonably equally split between completed books that came out in Spanish while Bolaño was still alive, and collections culled from his posthumous papers, uncollected stories and essays and the like. It's not necessarily a given that they will have the heft and confidence of the two 'big novels' that made his name.In fact, this proviso - that we already have the best of Bolaño on our bookshelves - might recast the following list as a kind of warning: don't hold your breath for these if you don't have a couple of the published ones under your belt!The Skating Rink (1st October 2010) Published in Spanish in 1993 as 'La Pista de Hielo'Novel set in Catalonia featuring three narrators whose lives are drawn together by the skating rink of the title - where a beautiful young figure skater practices, and where a dead body turns up.Monsier Pain (Jan 11) Published in Spanish in 1982 as 'La Senda de los Elefantes' ('The Elephant Path')That's 'pain' as in the French word for bread, not the English word for ouch. Set in Paris in 1938, it nevertheless has the Bolaño hallmarks of a dying South American poet and the threat of political violence - in the figure of a working as a torturer for Franco. Bolaño's first published novel.Entre Parentesis/Between Paranthesis (title undecided) (March 2011) Published in Spanish in 2004.A posthumous collection of articles, columns, interviews and speeches, all of them written after the success of 'The Savage Detectives' turned Bolaño into a hot literary property, in the Spanish-reading world at least. The Spanish edition contains a massive 125 pieces, including dozens of short newspaper columns, so you might prejudge it as a mixed bag. Nevertheless, Natasha Wimmer, one of two major Bolaño translators, says the book is "a kind of literary autobiography—intense, funny, scathing, moving. Bolaño isn't bound by many conventions in writing about himself or about other writers, and he's in full oblique-lyrical sail in lots of these pieces. It's the kind of book that actually makes you gasp in places—at Bolaño's daring, at his honesty, and at his skill".Incidentally, not all of 'Entre Parentesis''s is necessarily non-fiction. There has been a certain amount of controversy over one of its 'essays', titled 'Playa', which begins with an apparent admission that Bolaño had at some point been addicted to heroin - leading to speculation that this might have caused the liver disease that killed him. After refutations from Bolaño's widow and literary agent, it seems that 'Playa', in the English edition, is going to be tagged as fiction. You can read an unofficial translation of 'Playa' here.The Romantic Dogs (March 2011) Published in Spanish in 2000 as 'Los perros románticos'Here, you might say, is the rub. This is a collection of poems, written between 1980-1998. Bolaño considered himself primarily a poet, not a novelist. You can read one of the translations, 'Self Portrait at Twenty Years', here and another on the publisher's page here (an excerpt from 'The Worm').Antwerp (Sep 2011) Published in Spanish in 2002 as 'Amberes'.Fragmentary novel? Series of prose poems? This early piece (written in 1980, making it the author's first novel, though not published at the time) is Bolaño as his most experimental. Not the best way in for newcomers.The Third Reich (Jan 2012) First published in Spanish in 2010 as 'El Tercer Reich'.A novel found among Bolaño's papers after his death. It seems it was a work-in-progress that Bolaño abandoned in order to be able to complete '2666' - a partially typed-up manuscript based on a longer handwritten manuscript from 1989. It concerns Udo Berger, a German war-gaming champion holidaying on the Costa Brava before a big tournament, who finds himself sucked into a paranoid battle with an enigmatic local figure, El Quemado. There was, in fact, a real strategy board game, Rise and Decline of the Third Reich, which Bolaño seems to have used as his model.The Insufferable Gaucho (Jan 2013) First published in Spanish in 2003 as 'El Gaucho Insufrible'A collection of five stories and two essays. Completed by Bolaño before his death.The Secret of Evil (Sept 2013) Published in Spanish in 2007  as 'El Secreto del Mal'.Posthumous collection of short stories and essays, mostly unfinished, taken from Bolaño's papers after his death.And, while we're on the subject of Bolaño, here are some choice picks on the internet:- A beautiful Excel spreadsheet showing the progress of narrators/interviewees during the long middle section of 'The Savage Detectives'- Another graphic: 'a naïve introduction to the geometry of his fictions'- Back to the beginning: An English translation of the 'Infrarealist manifesto'  (also contains a neat period photo). The infrarealists being the poetic movement led by Bolaño (and, according to Bolaño - though supposedly half in jest - consisting of just him and Mario Santiago Papasquiaro). Bolaño went on to immortalise the movement, in 'The Savage Detectives', as the visceral realists, where he was Arturo Belano and Mario Santiago was Ulises Lima.- Translator Natasha Wimmer's useful introduction to the US paperback edition of 'The Savage Detectives' (pdf)- And her annotations to '2666'- And a YouTube vid of Bolano drinking a cup of coffee.And a talk and QA given by Wimmer, in which she discusses her translations, and reads from both '2666' and 'Entre Parentesis(Photo: Roberto Bolano, photographed in 1999. Getty Images)