Sometimes all it takes is the throwing together of two names to catch your attention - names that you'd never think of next to each other but which, once you see them, set off a vibrant, intriguing discord in your mind.For me, most recently, it was Richard Mabey and Iain Sinclair - the one the doyen of British nature writers, the other the obsessive chronicler of London's fringes and dark corners. Yet here was Sinclair introducing a book by Mabey - what could possibly connect these most urban and rural of writers?The book was The Unofficial Countryside, originally published in 1973 and given a gorgeous new edition by Little Toller Books. (Little Toller is a small but discerning imprint specialising in nature writing reissues; I first spotted the book on the equally worthwhile blog Caught By The River - both are must-visits for nature writing enthusiasts).In it, Mabey, author of Flora Britannica and Beechcombings, chose to write about the flora and fauna of the non-places that exist in the gaps between urban and suburban life - overgrown bomb sites, canal paths and gravel pits. Just the sort of places, in fact, that Sinclair has haunted in books like London Orbital, and indeed, Sinclair writes in his introduction that "it was astonishing to find how accurately The Unofficial Countrysidehad plotted my own unwritten future books." Clearly a match made in some gritty, fenced off heaven, most probably near Surbiton.It's a great book, a great reissue and a great introduction, but it did get me thinking: the introduction is a feature of the book that has grown in importance hugely but almost invisibly over the last decades. Like the cover blurb, it is a way of attracting attention to one particular book among the many. At its worst it comes across a bit like those 'celebrity champions' you get on 'Greatest Novel/Briton/Novelty Biscuit EVER' TV programmes. At best, though, they can provide fascinating doors into writers and books you never knew, or had properly considered.I, for instance, have now read Rebecca West's Black Lamb, Grey Falcon (her über-travel book on Yugoslavia before the Second World War) and the selected Pages From The Goncourt Journals  solely and precisely because they had introductions by one of my favourite authors, Geoff Dyer. These are not so much scholarly introductions, like the ones in your average Penguin Classic (where 'introduced by' is often 'edited and introduced by'), but read more like a personal recommendation.And it's a growing industry, the introduction business. Dyer, for instance, has also done Lady Chatterley's Lover and Fitzgerald's The Beautiful and the Damned, with a foreword - perhaps therefore more scholarly - to Roland Barthes' Camera Lucida to come later this year.Or, take another prolific and media-friendly writer, Will Self (whose introduction to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland I have): the list of books he has introduced includes Riddley Walker, The Master and Margarita, Yevgeny Zamyatin's We, Notes From The Underground, William Burroughs' Junky, M. Ageyev's Novel With Cocaine, The Book of Revelation (in Canongate's Pocket Bible series and which, now I come to think of it, I also have), Henry Miller's The Colossus of Maroussi, Nick Cave's Complete Lyrics, Alasdair Gray's 1982, Janine, David Shrigley's Why We Got The Sack From The Museum, and, coming any day now, a new illustrated take on Tristram Shandy.Of course, the vast majority of these are classics. You don't get many brand new books coming with introductions, partly because the actual author might not take kindly to being upstaged by some other scribbler. There's the fact, too, that the re-issue market is so glutted with competing editions of the same piece of writing that it pays to have your version kitted out with a good eye-catching name to slap on the front. After all, you can't use blurbs on classics. Slapping "A classic! - Will Self" on the cover of Anna Karenina isn't going to do anyone any favours. Everybody knows it's a classic already.The more you look, the fuller the bookshops seem to be with introductions - not to mention afterwords, author interviews, questions for book groups and other special features seemingly intended to mimic the guff you get padding out special edition DVDs. They are also eminently extractable and fit easily into newspaper books pages. Clearly they are here to stay.As they are, then, we should luxuriate in the fine art of the introduction which, is essentially, the art of the juxtaposition. Take, for instance, these other intriguing author/intro combinations: Judi Dench on the Bard (or at least Lamb's Tales From Shakespeare, Puffin Classics), Ann Widdecombe on GK Chesteron (The Incredulity of Father Brown, Capuchin Classics), philosopher John Gray on Georges Simenon (The Engagement, New York Review Books) and Martin Jarvis on Kafka (Metamorphosis, Hersperus Classics). Now just imagine what it would have been like to read Kafka on Martin Jarvis...