One day I was riding down the FDR with my cousin Mona-who-marries-well-for-a-living. "John broke my nose once," she said out of the blue, "and I didn't even do anything to deserve it." 
  Mona was loaded with dough and plastic surgery  not face-lifts or silicone injections, but procedures to make her look more like herself and less like Jake La Motta. This was her third marriage and third batterer. 
  I didn't quite understand what battered woman syndrome was then. 
  More of us know now, thanks to the news, which nowadays gives us chapter and verse, no matter how gory or sordid the story. 
  On Thursday, Warren Moon, a rather large quarterback for the Minnesota Vikings, was acquitted in about 25 minutes of charges that he battered his wife, Felicia, during an argument over her excessive use of credit cards. The quick verdict almost seemed like a denial of the facts: the 911 call, the scratches and bruises, the high-speed car chase. Or was it? 
  Last July 18, Felicia Moon told police her husband slapped, scratched and choked her until she was afraid for her life. She filed a complaint, then took it back. The prosecution pursued the case over her objections. As the alleged victim of domestic abuse, she was forced to testify under a controversial new Texas law.  
  She told the jury another version of the incident. She said she started it by kneeing her husband in the groin. Police photographs showed scratches and bruises on her face and shoulders; she testified that the injuries occurred because she resisted his efforts to calm her down. 
  "Don't put me in a box. Don't give me a label," she said at a press conference after the verdict. "Sometimes, it's not the man's fault." 
  The prosecution now suggests that Felicia Moon, like my cousin Mona-who-marries-well, may have been the victim of battered woman syndrome, that she was so beaten down that she doesn't know how to get up. Texas law defines battered woman syndrome as "a situation that occurs when a woman, involved in an intimate relationship with a man . . . is unable to take any action to stop the abuse, such as moving or filing a criminal charge." 
  Rusty Hardin, Warren Moon's lawyer, said in a phone interview that Felicia Moon in no way suffered from battered woman syndrome. 
  "This is not some weak woman who marched to the beat of her husband," Hardin said. "No pun intended. Felicia Moon was the best witness I've ever seen." 
  "It's absolutely typical for a battered woman to recant," said Betty Levinson, the lawyer for Hedda Nussbaum, whose beatings are tragically unforgettable. "And there are many, many instances when a woman commits perjury after telling the truth." 
  Hardin figured Texas is the real batterer in this case for forcing Felicia Moon to testify against her husband when she wanted to drop the case. 
  "Way back in October we told the prosecution to talk to her and get the full story. But they believed her to be suffering from battered woman syndrome," he said. "She's the one who decided to hold a press conference to talk about what really happened. She's the one who wouldn't let Warren plead either." 
  Hardin claimed Felicia, in front of him, told her husband: "What kind of message do you send to your kids if you walk in and plead guilty to something you didn't do, just to avoid the embarrassment of a trial." 
  Hardin said the fight that brought the cops occurred when Moon, who had temporarily moved out two days earlier, came back to pack for a trip. 
  "She was furious, and he was shutting down," Hardin said. "She never received a single blow. She kneed him in the groin, and hit him with a 3-pound candleholder in the back. There was some scuffling. She'd had these kinds of rages before. The injuries she received came when he tried to get her not to drive the car while in a rage." 
  Hardin said the maid called 911, and then put 7-year-old Jeffrey Moon on the phone because she couldn't speak English and was hysterical. 
  "My daddy's gonna beat my mommy," the boy cried. 
  "He never said that his daddy had hit his mommy," Hardin said. "The problem is that this is a love story that started when they were 16. They've had their ups and downs." 
  Love, indeed, is strange.