I PROBABLY SHOULDN'T be writing this column. 
  But it's the column I was bound to do sooner or later  and later just became sooner.  
  Another tragedy seems to have been caused by our practically nonexistent stalker laws and by another judge who believed that stalking is harmless. 
  It's not. 
  On Thursday afternoon, a 24-year-old male ex-cop, Robert Selman, fell dead with a single bullet to the brain. The suspected shooter was the father of 28-year-old female cop Jill Bender. 
  Six blocks and 13 minutes after Selman was killed, Bender's 60-year-old father, Paul, dropped dead of an apparent heart attack. He was packing a .38-caliber revolver and carrying a slip of paper with Selman's name, address and telephone number scribbled on it. 
  Police said Selman had been "obsessed" with Jill Bender for months. Bender had an order of protection against Selman. Eight days ago, he was arraigned on eight counts of aggravated harassment and two counts of harassment. Several calls were traced from his home to hers, and he was seen standing outside her apartment.  
  The district attorney's office asked for $1,500 bail, but the judge released Selman on his own recognizance. 
  That is perhaps what caused Paul Bender to confront the man he believed was stalking his daughter. It's probably what caused him to kick in Selman's door. 
  Selman's grief-stricken mother, Beverly, told Newser John Marzulli that her son was an innocent victim. It was Paul Bender, after all, who committed murder, she said. She maintained that her son was not in love with Jill Bender, but that Bender wanted to marry him. 
  What I know from first-hand experience is that being stalked makes a woman feel helpless and vulnerable. It makes the people who love her enraged. 
  A woman can run a Fortune 500 company and control the lives of thousands. She can be a cop, a Marine, a Green Beret. When she gets stalked, she becomes nearly powerless against the insane machinations of a coward, in a system that can't protect her. 
  It's enough to make Gandhi join the NRA. 
  For the past three years, I have had an order of protection in force against a stalker myself. The judge in my case, William Mogulescu of Manhattan Criminal Court, adjourned my case each time it came up. My stalker has been on probation since May, being assured by the judge that he wouldn't be going to jail anyway.  
  This isn't my first. I was once stalked by a man with diplomatic immunity. 
  There's nothing special about my current case, though. It's all too typical. My stalker was stalking two other women at the same time he was stalking me. He has a criminal history, including sexually assaulting a jogger and threatening the life of another woman. 
  Detective Richard Murphy and Assistant District Attorney Alix Pustilnik worked like mad to bring the case to court. 
  But Mogulescu, like Selman's judge, let him walk. 
  The judges who let stalkers off have obviously never been stalked themselves or had a daughter or a wife terrorized by a stalker. Once it happens, you never think the same way again. Once it happens twice, you are ready to start your own militia. 
  The law can't do much as it is now written. A woman must know the identity of her stalker, then she must press charges and continue with the process while her stalker is free. 
  An order of protection doesn't work like a bulletproof vest. Even to get a tap put on your phone is a big deal  after all, stalkers have certain rights of privacy!  
  Most of us who've been stalked aren't Madonna, who appeared in court to face her stalker while simultaneously placing ads to find a stranger to father her child. We generally don't have security guards to shoot our stalkers, either. 
  And we aren't Naomi Campbell. Her stalker was nabbed a week after the supermodel filed a police complaint. Cops said he'd been "making a pest of himself." 
  And most stalkers aren't former Chief Judge Sol Wachtler, either, who stalked one rich, well-connected woman and had 85 FBI agents assigned to the case. 
  Since I collect stalkers the way other women collect "Gone With The Wind" collector plates, I can say with some certainty that regular women can have 85 stalkers and not one FBI agent on the case. 
  TO PARAPHRASE an old joke, a liberal is someone who's never been stalked. 
  Sen. Roy Goodman sponsored a bill that recently passed the state Senate that makes stalking a first-degree offense if the perpetrator fails to obey an order of protection. 
  It has yet to pass the Assembly.