The first couple of times I saw this headline in my Twitter feed — former UT quarterback Vince Young's "Why I came back to UT"- I rolled my eyes so dramatically that I gave myself a headache. I sarcastically pointed out to my cat, who happened to be the only breathing creature in proximity, that "we all know why Vince Young is back at Texas — his post-Longhorns career was a massive train wreck. Where else would he go but back to the Forty Acres?"Understand that writing the words Vince Young and train wreck in the same sentence is difficult. He brought me and my family some of the greatest memories of the aughts, culminating with the moment pictured above. Heck, we even named our cat "Vince," after the UT quarterback.So the third time the op/ed, which appears on the Texas Tribune site, popped up in my feed, I decided I owed it to Vince to give it a read. I'm glad I did.Young writes about what he hopes to accomplish in his work for the university's Division of Diversity and Community Engagement. This is part of the school's efforts to help first-generation college students succeed, a program we editorialized about favorably here.The fact is that Vince Young understands what it's like to be a first-generation student or someone from a low-income background. He writes candidly about peers back at home who didn't necessarily respect the decision to try to succeed in the academic part of the university experience.People who might not take seriously what their high school guidance counselor or youth minister tells them about college will be a lot quicker to listen to Young. He can speak meaningfully from his experience — with equal shares of success and failure — about college. And he can do it in a way that will make young people listen.When the New York Times wrote persuasively about the issue of "Why Gets to Graduate?" last May, it noted the need for peer role-models. Bill McKenzie provided a Texas perspective on this story in this free-lance piece he wrote for Points last summer.I'm so glad that I quit my eye-rolling (never an open-minded response) and instead got Vince's message. If he works as hard on this effort as he worked on the collegiate football field, his post-pigskin legacy will indeed "change the world."