HECTOR had been violent before. More times than his wife of 17 years, Gloria, could remember. But this time the Booklyn woman knew if he found her she wasn't going to escape with just a bloody nose or black eye. 
  So, for two weeks, she dragged her three youngest kids, ages 11, 8, and 18 months, from agency to agency looking for a safe house or shelter for battered women and their children. There were no spaces, and the other option, a homeless shelter, was no place for children. 
  Two weeks went by, and then he found her outside her apartment building. He was high and he was carrying a knife. He slashed her throat and her face. The 42 stitches required to close her wounds have left her permanently disfigured. 
  After she got put out of the hospital, she and her children went directly to a shelter run by the Center for the Elimination of Violence in the Family. 
  Every day in this city, about 150 women and children flee their homes attempting to escape abusive men. And every day, city agencies must tell them that there is a waiting list for domestic violence shelters, even though 151 beds in three totally renovated domestic violence shelters hidden around the city sit unused.  
  The city blames the state and the state blames the city. 
  City Councilman Stephen DiBrienza (D-Brooklyn) blames the city for talking the talk, but not walking the walk. "The administration touts how they will protect families, and then they don't bring the shelters online for the worst of all possible reasons  money," he said. "What are they waiting for? For a battered woman to get killed? They promise and then do not provide." 
  Councilwoman Ronnie Eldridge (D-Manhattan), who with Manhattan Borough President Ruth Messinger did a study last year of domestic violence in the city, has also been trying to find out why the three shelters in renovated city-owned buildings remain unopened while women and children are being terrorized. A fourth shelter was awarded to the Victims Services Agency but has never been turned over by the city, which operates it at half capacity. 
  Maria Cuomo Cole, chairwoman of the housing group H.E.L.P., said, "We won our award to operate a [93-bed] facility back in July of '94. The building was ready for occupancy in November of '94. It wasn't until July of '95 that the construction was approved." 
  Officials of the agencies designated to run the shelters  the Center for the Elimination of Violence in the Family, the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, H.E.L.P., and Victims Services  have been told that the latest holdup concerns the per diem cost of the shelters. The state and city are bickering over whether the standard $64 per diem paid to the agencies (50% federal, 25% state and 25% city) should be raised to $67. But each day's delay saves the city and state $2,416 each. 
  So what's wrong with those public shelters for homeless families? "Security, for one thing," said Catherine Holland, who is celebrating her 32d birthday today. She tried to get her family into a domestic violence shelter for weeks, and finally gave up and moved into a family shelter. 
  She said her boyfriend found the family, and has been stalking her ever since. Meanwhile, her wallet and all her personal papers were stolen from her room. That probably wouldn't have happened at a shelter designed specifically for victims of domestic violence. 
  In a domestic violence shelter, the families are given small apartments with cooking facilities. Mothers can cook for their families, learn to live without fear and receive counseling. The stays range from 90 days to six months. 
  "Everything is budget driven," DiBrienza said. "They are putting battered women and children at great, great risk. Every month that they don't bring these shelters online the city makes money. Every cut affects people's lives  in this case, the very lives of women and children. It's a dangerous gamble  they tried it with Child Welfare and Elisa died. I hope they realize it before someone else dies." 
  Indeed that seems to be the case. In the city's latest financial plan, one column touts a potential savings of $1 million for "delays in contracts and shelter openings." 
  Renelda Higgins of the city Human Resources Administration said the city sent all the paper work to open all three shelters to Albany and is awaiting an answer.  
  TERRY McGrath of the state Social Services Department said the paper work from the city just arrived last week. "This should allow us to finally go ahead,"  he said. 
  In the meantime, hopefully, no woman or child will have their head bashed in while waiting for the bureaucrats to decide what color wallpaper to hang.