John Gotti's legal team is trying to show that Salvatore (Sammy Bull) Gravano committed perjury in his devastating testimony against his mob mentor. 
  If Gotti's lawyers are successful in their longshot strategy, the former Teflon Don eventually could be granted a new trial and Gravano could possibly lose his freedom. 
  Gotti's team wants to prove that Gravano committed more murders than the 19 killings to which he confessed, which would be a violation of his plea bargain agreement, and that federal prosecutors were aware of the lie. 
  Finally, the lawyers hope to show that Gravano was involved in smuggling 5 tons of cocaine aboard the Hunter, a ship seized in Brooklyn in July 1991, while Gravano was held at the Metropolitan Correctional Center. 
  The attack on Gravano is part of a two-pronged plan, Gotti's lawyers told the Daily News, in which they also may take court action to have Gotti moved from 23-hour lockdown in the Marion (Ill.) Federal Correctional Facility to a cellblock with a few more privileges. 
  Yesterday, The News described Gotti's life in a windowless 8-by-6-foot cell with virtually no human contact. The News also reported that Gotti's lawyers and family insist that, in seeking better accommodations, the 55-year-old don is only bowing to their pleas. 
  Gotti's lawyer Anthony Cardinale said, for example, that Gotti never complains about prison officials or conditions. "I can't tell you how often he has told me, 'I don't know what you're so concerned about. I'm being treated a lot better than I would treat them if it was the other way around,' " Cardinale said. 
  Gravano, who served part of a five-year prison term, is now out of jail and in the federal witness protection program. 
  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that Gotti received a fair trial, and the government has dismissed the defense allegations as a desperate bid to "manufacture dirt."  
  Gravano had testified, "It wouldn't pay for me to lie." 
  But Cardinale said, "Expect to hear about as many as three or four additional murders." 
  "As important as that is," said Cardinale, "it is equally important that Gravano falsely claimed that he never committed a violent act, except for the Gambino crime family. The government can only give immunity [from prosecution] to characters like Gravano if they claim that the murders they committed were related to the [racketeering] enterprise" in which they were involved. 
  "I maintain that three-quarters of these murders were not enterprise-related," said Cardinale. "They were just manifestations of Gravano's murderous and psychotic rages. 
  "Gravano killed his brother-in-law [Nick] Scibetta simply because his openly gay lifestyle was an embarrassment" to Gravano's macho image. 
  "How he killed his brother-in-law shows how much of a real killer Gravano is," said John Mitchell, another member of the defense team. "He laid in wait for him in an after-hours club, then chopped him up and put him in a children's wading pool. Then he threw the pieces all over Brooklyn. But the only thing anyone was allowed to ask [at the trial] was, 'Did you kill your brother-in-law?' And he would answer that [former Gambino boss] Paul Castellano ordered it." 
  "Think of this," Cardinale said, "the guy kills his wife's brother, and then goes home and sleeps with the guy's sister. Then he tells the family he won't rest until he finds the person who committed the atrocious deed." 
  Gravano's lawyer Larry Krantz did not return phone calls. 
  Gotti's lawyers also are seeking to undermine Gravano's claims about his net worth, which Gravano estimated at $30,000. 
  "There's every reason to believe that Gravano made millions and millions in loansharking, extortion and, now we find out, in the drug trade," said Cardinale. "Did the government ever go and collect taxes on that money?" 
  Details about Gravano's wealth may come out in his divorce papers. He is being sued for divorce by his wife, Deborah. "The divorce papers are sealed now," said Cardinale, "but [everyone he testified against] wants those papers subpoenaed."  
  The lawyers also maintain that Gravano was a partner in drug deals with a Luchese crime family member. The government's stance was that, "if Gravano was not a direct participant, it would not be necessary to tell about it," said Cardinale. "We plan to prove that he was head-over-heels involved in massive importations of narcotics. 
  "Gravano is an out-and-out perjurer," he said. "They like to say that John Gotti is concocting stories in jail. Remember, Gravano was a defendant until October of '91. There wasn't time for us to do the kind of investigative work that had to be done" by the time of the 1992 trial. 
  Along with the perjury accusations, the Gotti team's case will allege that the government found out about other Gravano criminal activities that they never revealed. 
  "We want the feds to 'fess up," said Cardinale. "How much did they know, and when did they know it?"