CRIME IS down 17.2% in the city. That's spectacular, and due in large part to top cop William Bratton. 
  Applause also has to go to Mayor Giuliani, who, in choosing to make crime the priority, hired a take-no-prisoners commissioner. 
  While we're at it, put your hands together for former Mayor David Dinkins, as well, for his Safe Streets/Safe City program, which put 5,000 additional cops on the street by 1994. 
  While it explains a lot about why crime is down in the city, it doesn't explain why crime is also down all over the country. 
  In fact, crime is down by at least 10% in eight of the top 10 crime-ridden cities, including Miami; Los Angeles; Tallahassee, Fla.; Baton Rouge, La.; Little Rock, Ark., and Jacksonville, Fla.; Pueblo, Colo., and New York, according to the Heritage Foundation. 
  Violent crimes, in particular, are declining. Murder rates in Atlanta, Chicago and New Orleans plummeted 17% between 1993 and 1994. In Houston, murder rates declined 32% in the first half of 1995; rapes declined 21%. 
  What's going on? Maybe violent criminals are so busy appearing on trashy talk shows during the day that they don't have time to rape, murder, pillage and plunder. Or maybe former President George Bush's wish that we become a kinder, gentler nation is coming true. Or maybe it's something else altogether. 
  According to Robert Stutman, former head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, some of the drop in crime is due to declining use of crack and an increase in the use of heroin. 
  "One of the off-shoots of crack is tremendous violence," Stutman said. "Crack users tend to commit crimes against people; heroin users tend to commit crimes against property." 
  More heroin, less violence. 
  So what happened to King Crack? And why is heroin now the drug of choice among street users and Wall Streeters alike? 
  The change in the drug culture on the streets of the U.S. has something to do, believe it or not, with the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. That invasion, plus a coup, and years of unrest in Afghanistan caused at least 6 million people to flee that country. The fleeing refugees included thousands and thousands of poppy growers. 
  Fewer poppy growers equaled fewer poppies, which meant less heroin on the streets.  
  Crack was cheaper, it was available, it didn't require needles. 
  AIDS, which could be transmitted via needle, was also on the rise. The practice of sharing needles  common among heroin addicts  could in itself cause death.  
  In 1985, crack began its real ascent, according to Stutman. Crack could be smoked, while street heroin wasn't pure enough at that stage to be inhaled. "That made crack more attractive to drug users," he said. 
  "In the late '80s, the purity of heroin on the lower East Side in New York was about 15%. In Harlem it was down to about 3%," Stutman maintained. That meant heroin had to be injected. 
  "Three years ago, crack began to become less popular in drug inner circles," Stutman said. "The perception became that this was a bad thing. The same thing happened in the 1970s with LSD." 
  The decrease in crack coincided with the return of the Afghani poppy growers, whose yields can be now be found on the city's streets with those of their up-and-coming competitors. 
  "The Colombians and Mexicans started to get into the heroin business," Stutman said. "Both countries now have dealers growing and marketing it. The mob used to control it; now it's changed." 
  Indeed. The heroin on the street has gone from 3% purity to 45% to 60% purity  pure enough to inhale. Pure enough that it doesn't need to be injected. Pure enough to keep a user nodding out much longer for much less. 
  "Now that you don't have to inject it, it's become a tremendously more attractive drug," said Stutman. "You get a lot more heroin in a $25 bag." 
  It's so attractive that even people whose crimes seem to be confined to producing terrible movies are living in heroin heaven. 
  New York and Hollywood parties often now feature great big crystal bowls of the stuff. 
  Tragically, the stigma attached to heroin use  the drug for the dregs of society  isn't what it used to be. 
  In some places it's cool again to be fried. 
  It's a very high price to pay for less violence, though.