
	Are you a bigot? Do you secretly hate mariachis, wish you could rid the world of filthy immigrants from every country everywhere, believe that even calling someone a bigot makes you a bigot, and that playing the race card is the only way to play?
	Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to TV's newest game show, "Nail That Bigot," the show that proves that the media are right — everyone is a bigot.
	Today's topic: Big Bigots In the News.
	1. Mavericks owner Mark Cuban is or is not a giant bigot for:
	A. Defending Donald Sterling's racist comments against Magic Johnson and others.
	B. Confusing Magic Johnson with a black kid in a hoodie and/or a white skinhead with tattoos.
	C. Sounding like a bigot and a moron.
	2. Andrew Cuomo is:
	A. A racist because his campaign ad accuses opponent Rob Astorino of being anti-anti-discrimination.
	B. A bigot because Pearl Quarles, Westchester's first and oldest African-American legislator, accused him of playing the race card.
	C. Not a racist just because he played the race card in this race.
	3. Cuomo's opponent for governor, Rob Astorino is:
	A. A bigot for wanting to roll back LGBT protections.
	B. Fair and balanced for believing that women should not have the right to choose — unless it comes to what to make for dinner.
	C. Not a bigot. He just looks like one.
	4. Which of the following statements about Robert Copeland, the 82-year-old police commissioner from New Hampshire, is true:
	A. Called President Obama a "f-----g n----r."
	B. Refused to apologize, saying, "(Obama) meets and exceeds my criteria for such."
	C. Refused to turn in his shield and his sheet.
	5. CNN is:
	A. Anti-gay because it fired a guy for wearing mariachi outfits to work.
	B. Anti-mariachi because they fired a guy for wearing mariachi outfits to work.
	C. Anti-gay and anti-mariachi for deliberately avoiding all mention of possible gay mariachi passengers aboard missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
	6. Wheel of Misfortune's Pat Sajak:
	A. Was only kidding when he tweeted that people who believe in global warming are unpatriotic racists.
	B. Was not kidding when he tweeted that people who believe in global warming are unpatriotic racists.
	C. Is missi—g a few screws a—d a few letters.
	Correct answers:
	1: a, b  of course c. 2: a  b (if you're a Republican), c (if you're a Democrat). 3: a, b  c no matter your party affiliation. 4: You're kidding, right? 5: c and if you didn't know that you are definitely a big bigot. 6: a, b and fill in the blanks.
	KILLING KIDDIE PORN
	Mt. Pleasant police chief and child-prey monster Brian Fanelli made the town anything but pleasant when he was busted in January for exchanging child porn online with other monsters.
	Fanelli's arrest was followed up this week when the feds nailed 71 of his disgusting compatriots-in-grime, including a New York City cop, a rabbi, a Boy Scout leader, two registered nurses, an au pair and a mother who exploited her own child.
	While I've always been anti-death penalty, I've also consistently made a big exception for adults who engage in any form of child sexual abuse, including the sale, trade or creation of kiddie porn.
	If killing a cop is a death penalty offense, than shouldn't the courtesy be extended to any police officer, parent, cleric, scout leader, teacher, guardian or other beast entrusted with the safety of children who perpetrates horrific adult sexual assaults on little, vulnerable human beings for their own pleasure and that of other sick bastards?
	Hang 'em high and pray for karma.
	
	KIM  KANYE'S PRIVATE PUBLIC AFFAIR
	Kimye wanted to keep their nuptials a big secret, which is why they made themselves as public as possible in Paris and are getting married in Florence, the city that exists for loud, American tourists who've never been to a museum without dinosaurs.
	Didn't Florence take enough of a beating when the slobs from "Jersey Shore" were there? Now the Fiorentini (who laugh all the way to the bank at us) are suffering through big profits from the Kardashians, who make Snookie and The Situation look like they were a couple of visiting art historians.
	Hopefully one day soon, "Kimye" will be such a distant memory, it'll sound like bad Korean food.
	HONOR AMONG SKEEVES
	After 12 years as mayor, you'd think Mike Bloomberg would have become human enough to know he should have honored the 9/11 victims, not partied atop their remains. Instead he and his revolting big bucks pals were the ones honored at a party at the Sept. 11 Museum, which barred relatives of the dead from entering the premises. Bloomy bought an extra term and now he just bought his way into infamy and shame.
	
	EXPRESS LINES
	Foxy Knocksied: How is it possible that Fox News is taking a knocking in the ratings, the Tea Party got bagged at the polls, and still everyone hates Obama?
	... Motherhood is the Pitts: Angelina Jolie says she's not like Chirlane McCray because she's not a single mom with two jobs. Not to be picky, but neither is Chirlane.
	
	... NYScrew: NYU workers in Abu Dhabi were forced to pay a year's wages just to get a job building the school, and NYU students are forced to pay several years wages just to get an education at the school.
	... Beret Foray: Monica Lewinsky stepped out in public after 16 long years of self-imposed exile to attend the Kitchen Spring Gala Benefit to honor artist Robert Longo, much to the dishonor and probably the horror of the woman who would be president. Monica's dress was pink, but her face was no longer red.
	KILLER WHALES/WHALE KILLERS
	Even as the government estimates that 138,500 whales and dolphins will be injured or killed along the East Coast if oil and gas exploration companies are allowed to use seismic air guns, the U.S. has opened the door for just that. Watch this videoof jumping whales taken from my porch in Atlantic Beach — yes, right on Endangered Species Day last week — and then decide if the gas companies should be allowed to blast these creatures into deafness and worse.
	
	GETTING HIS PHIL
	As unrepentant as a Saturday night sinner, "Duck Dynasty" patriarch Phil Robertson preached more gay hate on Easter, this time relying on Corinthians.
	Good thing he didn't cite Leviticus, which prohibits eating pork, shooting ducks instead of wringing their heads off, eating shellfish, eating fat, letting your hair get unkempt, going hatless, and touching flying insects with four legs. The Robertsons do, however, keep holy the bit about not rounding off their beards.