
	Dear Gov. Cuomo,
	I'm writing to applaud your announcement last week that you're considering a bid to bring the 2024 Olympics to New York City under the leadership of Mayor Bloomberg's failed Olympic point man, Daniel Doctoroff.
	Just because we already have approximately 53 million tourists a year who annoy the crap out of the rest of us, and just because we have nearly full hotel occupancy, doesn't mean we don't want millions more tourists clogging our streets. I mean, somebody's got to fill those outdoor no-smoking pedestrian plazas, seeing how the German and Japanese tourists left with the smoking ban. Boy, I miss seeing them happily freezing and puffing away out there in giant snowstorms.
	Anyway, I digress. As Doctoroff has pointed out to, well, anyone who will listen, just bidding on the Olympics — even if we lose it again — is a huge win.
	
	Doctoroff has been quoted in the New York Times, among other outlets, stating that Bloomberg's bid for the 2012 Olympics actually helped New York so much it's nearly incalculable.
	For instance? Well, he believes it was the catalyst for the new Yankee Stadium, as well as for the development of the Atlantic Yards (including Barclays Center) and, yes, the High Line.
	Well, so what if Yankee Stadium planning began well before Doctoroff and Bloomy were in office? And who cares that Bruce Ratner had already bought the Nets with a plan to move the team to a new facility in Brooklyn before the Olympics bid was in play? And the High Line? OK, so the High Line was developed independently from any Olympic bid, according to a spokesperson, but still. Those could have been the reasons — if they'd been true.
	Yes, Governor, it might seem that the only thing the failed Olympic bid didn't create is The Catskill Game Farm, but don't listen to naysayers.
	Think of the money the 2024 Olympics would generate. So most Olympic cities end up either losing money or not making enough to make the whole thing worthwhile. So what? We can afford to lose money!
	
	And it's not that much anyway. I mean, Vladimir Putin only spent $51 billion for the 2014 Sochi Olympics, and the 2008 summer Olympics in Beijing? Estimates vary between $15 and $40 billion.
	A mere pittance when compared to the money it will bring in with all those millions of attendees.
	Granted, some of the estimates such as 185 million people at the Beijing Olympics were exaggerated by about 180 million, but London's figures put attendance for all related events at around 19.5 million. Sure, 16.5 million of them went to free events, but New York can certainly handle 16.5 million more freeloaders.
	Governor, I'm telling you: A 2024 NYC Olympics would be as welcome an attraction as those fake antique electric cars.
	All the best,
	Linda
	
	TERRIFYINGLY REAL
	The dedication of the 9/11 Memorial Museum last week brought that horrible day back to every New Yorker.
	But because we are resilient, we've somehow convinced ourselves that the attack was a once-in-a-lifetime event that could never happen again. We're safer than we used to be when we were naïve. Right?
	According to a new book, "The Nuclear Terrorist" by Robert Gleason, the answer is a terrifying no — and here are a bunch of reasons why:
	The Obama administration is assisting in the sale of nuclear power reactors to Saudi Arabia.
	Top Bush officials have worked for firms doing business with North Korea, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
	Japan is stockpiling tons of poorly protected plutonium explosive, which experts say has turned that country into "a big-box store for nuclear terrorists."
	Sophisticated, well-funded terrorists have been blowing up Pakistani nuclear facilities and now are threatening to come here.
	It's fairly easy to steal nuclear explosives and cobble together a crude but very powerful, Hiroshima-style nuke.
	
	UPWARD GROWLING DOG
	If Alec Baldwin doesn't stop getting arrested and cursing out cops, his wife, Hilaria, is never going to get any rest. She'll have to strike yoga poses outside every news outlet in town.
	Baldwin's latest rage stage was Fifth Ave., where cops busted him for riding his bike uptown on the downtown avenue. Where's he from, Iowa?
	As usual, F-bombs flew, and Baldwin was reportedly furious that the cops didn't even know who he was. Later, he complained that he was stopped only because they knew who he was. Better living through yoga.
	
	ELEVATED TO A NEW LEVEL
	Which was weirder — Solange's wild beatdown of Jay Z or Beyoncé's disregard for the whole thing? Answer: Neither. The weirdest thing was their statement: "Jay and Solange each assume their share of responsibility for what has occurred." Translation: Jay Z got busted and is now on a leash so short, he'll choke if he tries to stray.
	THE WALKING DREAD
	Michael Jackson is showing up more dead than he ever did alive. He's got a new album out, he might appear in a hologram performance at Sunday night's Billboard Music Awards and he just showed up as a ghost leaning over the head of a Michael Jackson impersonator in a photo taken by a fan. Why it's a killer, diller, chiller, thriller here tonight.
	KARL'S A ROVE-ING IDIOT ABOUT HIL
	Karl Rove has suggested that Hillary Clinton may have brain damage. Or so it was reported, which he then denied.
	He does, however, question whether or not she's got health (subtext "brain") problems. No, not because she chose to stay married to a man who had more female links than the Dinah Shore Golf Tournament — but because of her unusually long hospital stay in December 2012. That hospital stay, if you remember, just happened to coincide with Clinton's scheduled appearance in Congress.
	Rove points out that when she was finally released she was wearing thick glasses. Hey, that'll do it!
	
	The theory, don't forget, comes from a man who thought there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, and that W. was a smart, charismatic cowpoke. So right off, you gotta wonder who it is that has brain damage.
	The real hole in Rove's theory? It totally contradicts the long-held conservative accusation that Hillary made up the injury in order to avoid testifying about Benghazi before the House and Senate foreign affairs committees.
	So did she suffer brain damage as Rove contends? Or was it just a bout of that pesky Benghazi brain freeze?
	EXPRESS LINES
	A Much, Much Higher Power: The Pope said last week that if Martians land on earth, he will be more than happy to bless them, too. Presumably he'd be doing this live on "Ancient Aliens." ... It's Not Magic: Donald Sterling wants to know what kind of man would sleep with a woman in every city. Answer: Donald Sterling? ... Maintaining A Position: Memo to Alec Baldwin: "Go f--- yourself" is not a Kundalini yoga position ...