
	There hasn't been a novel this insanely sexist and badly written since "Fifty Shades of Grey."
	No, I'm not talking about the sequels by E L James. I'm talking about "Fifty Shades of Bulls--t," otherwise known as the report prepared by Gov. Chris Christie's lawyer, Randy Mastro.
	Mastro's new masterpiece, released Thursday, is a lively work of fiction that exonerates the big man and blames the little woman, man-needy Bridget Anne Kelly.
	While "Grey" made millions, "Bulls--t" cost a million in taxpayer dollars. Think of it as an author advance. A very big author advance.
	In Mastro's alleged non-fiction account, Christie's former powerhouse deputy chief of staff, Kelly, is reduced from strong, decisive woman and tough single mom to the weeping equivalent of "Fifty Shades'" man-obsessed heroine, Anastasia Steele.
	In James' bodice-ripper, Steele proclaims, "Truly I am a marionette and he is the master puppeteer," while in Mastro's bridge-flipper he implies that Kelly was not just dependent on men, but was apparently also despondent over being love-dumped by another alleged co-conspirator, Bill Stepien.
	What? Was she also sex-starved, lonely, desperate and suffering from PMS?
	Despite Christie's firing of Bridget-of-the-Bridge, and subsequently pitching her under it by saying she was "so stupid and so deceitful," Mastro still maintained in his tome that she was smart enough to have masterminded the bridge lane closure along with Port Authority exec David Wildstein.
	And what about both Christie and Kelly's former guy, Stepien? Mastro concluded that since Stepien had broken it off with Kelly, "it might explain a lack of communication between the two of them during a critical period." Oh.
	In other words, they weren't speaking. About anything. During Bridgegate.
	But on Friday, enough was enough and the woman depicted by Mastro as a weepy, man-dependent little bird finally flipped all those traitorous guys the bird and said she herself would flip and sing for immunity.
	What else would you expect from Mastro, the former baseball-bat-wielding deputy mayor under womanizing Rudy Giuliani?
	Worse, on Friday, the very day after Mastro's million-dollar exoneration of the governor had turned into a tax-wasting laughingstock, Christie, unbowed and emboldened, held the second press conference since the scandal broke. He not only took the opportunity to spin a yarn about the resignation of embattled Port Authority head David Samson, but also defended the biased "Bulls--t" report.
	He said that while the investigation had been limited because Mastro didn't have access to others involved, he did have access to him and so the investigation concerning him had been exhaustive and, therefore, correct.
	In speaking about Samson, Christie actually thought people would believe that the only reason the PA chairman resigned wasn't because of the scandal, but because he was old and tired. Yeah? Aren't we all?
	On the good side, Mastro and Christie clearly have great careers ahead — as writers of fantasy. Christie's fantasy concerns a scandal-riddled governor who runs for President, because scandal doesn't matter to voters.
	We'll see who gets all weepy and dependent now!
	CITY BILKED ON CITI BIKES
	How is it that big bucks Bloomberg, who makes billions every time he blinks, left us with Citi Bike, a program that's gone nearly broke, even though it took in $28.1 million in its first nine months?
	If you made that much money, would you be so broke so fast? Not unless you were Michael Jackson you wouldn't.
	The fact that Citi Bike needs tens of millions to continue is as much of a fuzzy math mystery as where exactly all those big bucks came from for Bloomy's other insane pet projects like pedestrian malls (put to excellent use this endless frozen winter) and the nightmare bike lanes, which made the city safe for pizza delivery guys and dangerous for everyone else.
	One more question remains a total mystery in the big bike boondoggle: How did Citi Bike's manager Justin Ginsburgh, who couldn't manage little construction projects, get hired by a company that manages big construction projects? Talk about failing up — literally!
	A TEXT-BOOK GAFFE
	TMI: Hey, Malaysia Airlines — in light of your incredibly insensitive mass text to relatives of the passengers on Flight 370 in which you informed them "All lives were lost," we're all relieved that you didn't tweet out something like: OMG! SBT earlier 411 saying YHL your loved ones in that 1NAM incident. But we're TOU. XO, Your BBFs at Malaysia Airlines.
	JUST GO AWAY, GWYNETH!
	After announcing their conscious uncoupling, Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin ran off to the Bahamas for — what? — some unconscious coupling? Meantime, People mag's "World's Most Beautiful Woman," who has become the universe's most annoying human, is working on the follow-up to her book, "It's All Good." It's called, "I Lied. It Wasn't All That Good."
	DON'T QUIT YOUR DAY JOB
	Former NYPD Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly will be joining ABC News as a consultant. He was going to join CNN, but when he ran out of useless information about Flight 370 he himself also immediately became useless. While we're all perplexed by their nutty 24/7 370 coverage, CNN's ratings have gone up by 100%.
	EXPRESS LINES
	North Korea has Killer Kim, kimchi and now Kim cuts. And yet, we're the ones who got "stuck" with Kim Kardashian ... It cost taxpayers one million bucks for Gov. Christie's personal lawyer to find him innocent. If he'd found him guilty, would it have only cost half a mil?... Evil puppeteer/war monger/Fox News racist-in-residence Donald Rumsfeld compared President Obama to an ape, saying that a trained ape could do better. So why is Al Sharpton so suspiciously quiet for the first time in his life? ... What's in a name? A druggie named Christopher Reeves was arrested wearing a Superman costume like Christopher Reeve, who wore a Superman costume like George Reeves ... Talk about a real loser! Nicky Haskell's StarCaps were spiked with prescription drugs and she still went bankrupt? ... President Obama said he's more afraid of New York City getting nuked by unknown terrorists than he is of the Russians. Not to be contrary, but weren't the Russian oligarchs the ones who stole the hot nuke material in the first place?
	BE VERY AWARE
	April is autism awareness month and the CDC's figures, just out, show a marked increase from just two years ago. Hannah Brown, a former New York City reporter now with the Jerusalem Post who is raising two kids, one of whom is autistic, has written a riveting novel, "If I Could Tell You," about four New York City women with autistic kids. Brown moved to Israel to be with her husband and when her marriage broke up, she took life's lemons and made some delicious lemonade. The book will be featured on Barnes  Noble's First Nook this Wednesday, Autism Awareness Day. But as Brown says, "Every day is Autism Awareness Day in my apartment!"