
	The premature presidential polls have started rolling out and are consistent: The race for the White House is as much a fantasy as "Game of Thrones" — filled with as many off-the-mark, off-their-rocker relatives and pretender-contenders to the throne as any "Song of Ice and Fire":
	REPUBLICANS
	Jeb Bush,Son of George the First, brother of George the Second
	The Good: Last-name recognition
	The Bad: Last-name recognition: Brother Bush's illegal war and the collapse of the economy.
	The Ugly: The father, the son and the holy "Good God! — not them again!"
	The Advice: Get out and go find a bank to collapse.
	The Campaign Song: "Brothers in Arms"
	Rand Paul,Son of Ron
	The Good: Last-name recognition
	The Bad: Plagiarizing passages of his book
	The Ugly: Allegedly binding, blindfolding and abducting a female college classmate in 1983 for a night of bonging and Aqua Buddha worship. Don't ask.
	The Campaign Song: "Hail to the Thief" (full album)
	The Advice: Twitter @140 characters is more effective than 13-hour filibusters droning on about drones.
	Chris Christie,Acolyte of GWB, in trouble because of the other GWB
	The Good: The handling of Hurricane Sandy
	The Bad: The George Washington Bridge Scandal
	The Ugly: Using $1 million in taxpayer dollars to fund an "acquittal" by a law firm that contributed $10G to his policy group
	The Advice: Get the hell out while the getting's good — but don't use either GWB to help you get there.
	Campaign Song: "Bridge Over Troubled Waters"
	DEMOCRATS
	Hillary Clinton,Wife of Bill
	The Good: Last-name recognition
	The Bad: Whitewater scandal
	The Ugly: Benghazi
	The Campaign song: "Stand By Your Man"
	The Advice: Do not mention that, as secretary of state, you helped Boeing secure a $3.7 billion contract from Russia (yes, that Russia), or that two months later Boeing contributed $900,000 to the William J. Clinton Foundation.
	Elizabeth Warren,No political dynasty detected
	The Good: Native American background
	The Bad: She doesn't have a Native American background - 1/32nd — seriously? Sorry, but Johnny Depp as Tonto was more convincing.
	The Ugly: Getting kicked to the curb by President Obama (Scratch that and reinsert in "The Good" section.)
	The Campaign Song: "Half Breed" by Cher
	The Advice: You're in deep Waupecan, paleface.
	Joe Biden,Son Beau, running for governor of Delaware
	The Good: Name recognition
	The Bad: Calling the signing of the health care bill, "A big, f---ing deal" (If he'd eliminated "big," he would have been 100% correct.)
	The Ugly: He got in trouble with Indian-Americans, as opposed to American Indians, when he said, "You cannot go to a 7-Eleven or a Dunkin' Donuts unless you have a slight Indian accent. I'm not joking."
	The Campaign Song: "Fool on the Hill"
	The Advice: Same advice he gave to wheelchair-bound Missouri state Sen. Chuck Graham: "Stand up! Let 'em see ya!"
	BUTT OUT — LITERALLY
	Butts are the new boobs and white the new black. Asinine as it may seem, "belfies" (butt selfies) have become not just the stars of Instagram, but a political-racial football as big as Kim K's booty.
	Even Celeste Headlee of high-brow NPR took on the belfie with blogger Kara Brown, whose blog post criticized Vanity Fair for featuring Instagram butt sensation Jen Selter. Thing is, Selter is white and no women of color were featured. The butt is back, but it's white.
	FIREWORKS SNOW JOB
	Sure, it's about time that the Macy's NYC fireworks came back to the East River instead of the Hudson — which was great if you lived in New Jersey.
	Now it might only be mostly great if you live downtown or in Brooklyn. That's because the barges will be situated between the Manhattan and Brooklyn bridges.
	According to Mr. Fireworks, Buzzy O'Keeffe — owner of both Manhattan's Water Club and Brooklyn's River Cafe, and the guy who accommodated the NBC cameras and platforms for 19 years when the fireworks barges extended from 23rd to 34th Sts.: That was the perfect location. The FDR Drive down there is a great viewing place, plus the fireworks could be seen uptown, downtown, in the Bronx, Brooklyn, parts of Staten Island and Queens. It was a whole city event!
	"But," he continued, "because of the bend in the river, people who live above 14th St. (now) will see nothing. And what about Queens, Midtown, uptown and the Bronx?"
	But hey, if you live in Brooklyn, you're set, unless you're too hip to like fireworks.
	If this turns out to be the case, the same people who didn't get their snow plowed are getting a snow job on the fireworks. Stay tuned — because that may be the only way you'll be able to see the show.
	A TALE OF BULLY AND BULLS
	Talk about classless. Real estate developer/parking garage king/NYCLASS founder Steve Nislick — who wants to stop what he claims is carriage horse abuse — has no problem raging about abusing a woman.
	Last week at the Javits Center, Nislick, there to unveil his ridiculous electric "antique" cars, spotted a female Daily News photographer and said, "Let's get away from the Daily News before I hit her in the face." What a brave man!
	What's the real story? In 2009, author/journo Michael Gross exposed a pile of horse crap in Nislick's garage that stunk up the joint.
	He quoted a Nis­lick pamphlet, which stated, "Currently, the stables consist of 64,000 square feet of valuable real estate on lots that could accommodate up to 150,000 square feet of development. These lots could be sold for new development." Bingo!
	Note to the mayor and the City Council: Elected officials are there to do the will of the people, not to defy it. Sixty-four percent of New Yorkers want to keep the carriage horses. Turn your backs on this misogynistic bazillionaire now or the voters will turn their backs on you.
	FOOT IN MOUTH
	Rush Limbaugh said he thought Hillary Clinton faked the shoe-throwing incident recently at the scrap recyclers convention just to deflect Benghazi. What? That's as crazy a scenario as saying a fella would blame his maid for his illegal prescription drugs just to deflect questions about his illegal prescription drug habit.
	LINDSAY'S LOVER-LY LIST
	Lindsay Lohan says she did make a list of her famous lovers, but she can't admit it. What? She told Bravo host Andy Cohen the list was her fifth step in AA, and must have been shot surreptitiously when she was moving. If it was so secret, why did she leave it out? By the size of the list, maybe she should consider SAA next.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Gunning for Actors: If the original actors from the 30-year-old "Top Gun" movie reprise their roles for the sequel, it'll have to be called "Top Gums." ... Painted Into a Corner: It's hard to know which form of George W. Bush torture is worse: Waterboarding or oil painting ... Sad Mad Men: If advertising in the '60s was the most fun you could have with your clothes on (and off), then why is everyone on "Mad Men" always so damned depressed?