
	Ari-no-zona: No immigrants, no gays, no nothing.
	Somebody call Vladimir Putin ASAP — our countries finally have something to agree upon — anti-gay hatred as a policy.
	The new pending law in Arizona, which is not, as it seems, a violation of the Civil Rights Act, but this bill will make it legal without question, for business owners to refuse to sell or provide services to gays and "others" on religious beliefs. In other words, if bigotry is part of the liturgy of your religion, you get to flout the law and violate the civil rights of the 9 million Americans who identify as gay, bisexual, transgender or "other."
	What if "religious conviction" keeps business owners from dealing with "others" such as women, blacks, ethnic minorities, the handicapped and mentally challenged? What about old people, blind people or people of another religion? Would that be OK?
	Of course, the country would be up in arms and storming the Arizona borders (which they also want closed) if they practiced such horrific bias as policy. Yet in this day and age it's OK to pass a discrimination law against gays? It's now up to Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican who has vetoed such legislation before, but alternately has expressed her opinion that business owners have the right to deny service to "others."
	Perhaps the next logical step for Arizona will be to require all gays to wear lavender armbands so that they will be easily identifiable. Armbands worked so well in Nazi Germany that Hitler was able to wipe out 6 million Jews in a very short time.
	Imagine what it can do to the gay population, even those passing through.
	Armbands would also keep bigots from making a profit off of gay people who could otherwise have spent thousands in their stores or millions on real estate. Of course, gay real estate in Arizona will now be as sought-after as evolution classes for Christian fundamentalists.
	No right-thinking human would consider visiting the state or taking their kids there for a vacation, and with any luck, all right-thinking homeowners will get out of a state that dictates hatred.
	RELATED: ARIZONA POLS VOTE TO ALLOW BUSINESS OWNERS TO REFUSE SERVICE TO GAYS 
	I propose that Ellen DeGeneres attempt to shop in Arizona for a hugely high-end item like a big diamond for her wife, Portia de Rossi, with a hidden camera in a shop that discriminates. Let's see if the bigots have the nerve to give her an Oprah-in-Paris moment. We live by media and this law can die by media.
	Failing that, the bigots can dig out those old southern signs from the 1950s that read, "No Dogs, No Blacks, No Jews," and just add "Gays or Others," and they'd be good to go.
	No wonder these prehistoric legislators live in Arizona, land of the dinosaurs. At least dinosaurs had the good sense to become extinct.
	UKRAINIAN VOLITICS
	The more things change, the more they don't.
	Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych ran out of Kiev like his cossack was on fire to visit his support base in the northeast as protesters swarmed his office.
	In Ukraine, a president's shelf life is shorter than fresh produce and Yanukovych's expiration date probably got stamped "expired" when he signed on with Russia.
	So far, he hasn't ended up in jail like former prime minister/gas mogul Yulia Tymoshenko, or suffered the fate of Viktor Yushchenko, who, after the Orange Revolution, was horribly disfigured when poisoned with, yes, Agent Orange. Give it time.
	But this is the way of political life in Ukraine, and no, I'm not talking out of my kerivnyk.
	My family has a satellite office of its tech company there and terrifying local cops once seized the office to shake them down. It took the intervention of an even scarier oligarch to work a solution.
	So what about poster boy boxing champ Vitali Klitschko as the next president? Despite the international media love affair, my politically active friend there says, "He doesn't have enough support from Ukrainian citizens. And? He's a resident of Germany."
	RELATED: STASI: TOO EARLY FOR SO MUCH MAYOR DE BLASIO DRAMA
	NO JUSTICE FOR JORDAN
	Florida is becoming as safe a haven for murderous white people as Los Angeles is for murderous celebrities. The latest outrage is the case of Michael Dunn, whose murder trial in the massacre of Jordan Davis ended in a hung jury, which in this case is the opposite of what "hung" should really mean.
	NUGENT'S STILL OFF HIS ROCKER
	Self-proclaimed serial pedophile, pseudo-aspiring presidential assassin, has-been rocker Ted Nugent took time out from threatening to overthrow the government to join the campaign of Texas Republican gubernatorial candidate Greg Abbott.
	This, although Abbott's violent senior citizen "blood brother" called President Obama a "subhuman mongrel," "chimpanzee" and "piece of s---" who should "suck on my machine gun" and once said he would be in jail or dead if Obama was reelected.
	When it blew up like a Texas tornado, Nugent bit the bullet without really sucking on his machine gun and kind of apologized, saying "not necessarily to the President — but on behalf of much better men than myself." That of course, would be almost every man on Earth.
	Abbott still doesn't care about Nugent's pedophilia (Ted revoltingly calls it "alternative flesh management") nor the fact that he refers to women who aren't underage (therefore useless) as "varmints," "fat pigs" and "dirty whores."
	Luckily, we live in the New York area, where politicians just tweet their nasty bits, hang with hookers, lie, cheat, steal, are involved in retaliation traffic jams, troll for boys at rest stops and troll topless for women on Craigslist.
	RELATED: STASI: WOODY ALLEN, MIA FARROW DRAMA WORTHY OF A TALK SHOW
	DRESSED FOR DISTRESS
	If Carol Channing had married an Indian chief with a side job as a kosher butcher, the baby would be the latest incarnation of Lady Gaga. Gaga, back in the city to appear on "The Tonight Show," apparently forgot to wear a coat, or a shirt, come to think of it, while walking to a restaurant that same night.
	It's terrible enough that no one thought to remind Gaga of the polar vortex, but how did they fail to remind her that a Lady just doesn't wear clogs with a headdress?\
	ANTI-GRAVITAS
	It took an anti-gravity environment to keep Kate Upton er, up, in her itsy gold bikini for "Sports Illustrated." It took extreme gravity to keep the men around the world down when the mag hit the stands and the photos hit the Internet. What was she, Mother Teresa in a former life, to get all the goods in this one?
	RELATED: KATE UPTON DONS SKIMPY BIKINI FOR ZERO GRAVITY SHOOT
	EXPRESS LINES
	A House is Not a Home: Democrats are leaving the House as often as Newt Gingrich leaves home ... Justice Is So Not Blind: Why did it take five seconds to arrest the perps in Philip Seymour Hoffman's drug overdose and never when it involves a regular joe? ... Go figure: Boosting the minimum wage would raise 1 million people above the poverty level and throw 500,000 people below it when they lose their jobs.