
	Dear Rev. Sharpton,
	I am writing to let you know how awful I feel about the way the media and the public have treated you. As a member of both the media and the public, I stand firm in proudly saying — yes world! — I am Al Sharpton's biggest supporter.
	What the uninformed general public doesn't understand is that there are so many reasons that a famous man of the cloth can be forced — forced, I tell you! — to be a yellow-bellied rat. Yet, insensitive people take your decency for larceny, your gullibility for glibness. But, hey, as they say, schtick happens. Especially around you.
	Of course you were forced to wear a wire! You just thought it was an early version of a lap band!
	Truthfully? The feds and the media will go to any lengths to bring down a big guy with a big following — or now in your new incarnation — a bitty guy with a big head. They're just all jealous of your plans to market yourself as a human bobblehead doll.
	But back to old news. You say you wore a wire in the 1980s to bring down the rats in the mob, not only because they threatened you personally, but really to protect your neighborhood from gangsters with giant pompadours, track suits, gold chains and big medallions.
	Oh gosh, I'm sorry — I didn't mean you. I meant the other guys in giant pompadours, track suits, gold chains and big medallions.
	I confess, though I'm still a bit confused about why you met with an undercover cop who you thought was a South American drug lord looking to launder money. You should have just told the cops the truth right then and admitted you were only out to do good. Instead you flipped faster than Paul Hamm at the 2004 Olympics.
	OK, so you supposedly targeted your friend, Don King. If so, it wasn't because you wanted to. They made you. And besides, he was a convicted killer (who was later pardoned).
	Let me also give a big shoutout to MSNBC, those stalwarts of journalistic integrity. They forced out Martin Bashir for being sexist. They kicked Alec Baldwin to the curb for homophobic remarks. But they have kept you on even though many people mistakenly think you're a race-baiting extortionist.
	God bless the friends who have stood by you through this smear like Mayor de Blasio, City Controller Scott Stringer, State Controller Thomas DiNapoli and even President Obama.
	Stand proud Reverend, and remember: Keep your friends close and your books closed.
	Love,
	Linda
	WHO IS THE FAKER? COLBERT VS. BARBIE
	It took about 14 seconds for CBS to go from mourning the loss of "Late Show With David Letterman" to celebrating Letterman's replacement, Bill O'Reilly doppleganger Stephen Colbert.
	Problem is, nobody actually knows — including Colbert's own family — who the hell he really is. This has led skeptics to fear that "The Colbert Report" hasn't been a spoof at all, and that Colbert's really Colbert.
	His show, for me anyway, was like watching "Attack of the Killer Tomatoes" a spoof of "B" movies. I'd rather watch the real thing.
	It'll be interesting to see if the real guy not only exists, but if he can actually conduct a serious interview. Or a funny one, for that matter.
	Hopefully, the real Colbert reveal will be more interesting than last week's selfie exposure of another person who lives as a character, the human Barbie, Valeria Lukyanova (above). Live Barbie stepped out of her Barbie Dream House without her fake eyes and repulsive, creepy makeup. And all that was left? Just another knock-out Ukrainian platinum blonde with a 14-inch waist.
	Is that the fate of the real Colbert too? Is he just another pretty face with a 14-inch waist?
	TODAY, NO CLOTHES MAKE THE WOMAN
	It used to be that famous actresses lived in fear that old nudie pix would surface to ruin their reputations.
	Now many actresses get and stay famous only by posing like $3 craigslist hookers for any publication that'll have them.
	On the nudie beat this week is the ridiculous cover of Treats! magazine featuring naked Dylan Penn (daughter of Sean Penn and Robin Wright) wearing, well, a purse.
	Her observation? Who knew that "using a Fendi purse to cover my vagina would be so challenging?" Well, everyone, actually since the vagina is an internal organ.
	Then there was the Why dear God? "Rolling Stone" cover of Julia Louis-Dreyfus, wearing only a tattoo of the Constitution, with an erroneous John Hancock signature. It created a storm, not because Hancock didn't sign naked women's butts like a rock star, but because Hancock didn't sign the Constitution, either. Too bad it obscured the bigger question of why an accomplished woman like Louis-Dreyfus needs validation by behaving like Miley Cyrus.
	Rihanna also got naked for a magazine last week, but that would only qualify as news if she stayed dressed.
	Now, nudie shots are supposed to represent female empowerment. Right. The more things change, the more they don't.
	IT'S A TEMPEST IN A NAZI TEA CUP
	A giant chain store in Germany mistakenly ordered, then began selling, 5,000 tea cups from China. So far so good. Problem is, the delicate cups are decorated with roses, a poem, and oh, yes, a portrait of Hitler in a swastika motif. No, this is not a sequel to "The Producers."
	Hello? It's one thing to blunder into ordering one Nazi leader tea cup, but 5,000 Hitler cups? The cups were pulled so quickly we couldn't make out the poem, so here's one of our own:
	Roses are red,
	Violence is blue,
	This cup is a present
	From der Fuehrer to you.
	SHOE-IN FOR PREZ
	Rumors to the contrary, Alison Michelle Ernst (r.), the woman who hurled a shoe at Hillary Clinton as she addressed the scrap recyclers, was not as alleged, a nut job, a radical or even a Republican. She was simply an enraged fashionista offended that any woman eager to be represent the rest of us would not just step out, but stand before a group wearing such an upsetting pair of gramma shoes that even scrap recyclers would refuse to turn them into something useful.
	Proving that the New York Daily News beats The New York Times every time, Mayor de Blasio showed up 35 minutes late for his Times interview last week but was right on time to officiate at his first wedding ceremony at City Hall. That would be mine.
	BULLETS OVER BLOCKHEAD
	So Woody Allen's not just an accused pedophile but now an accused racist, too? As revealed in "Confidenti@l" last week, Allen's dictate for the not-so-well received musical of his brilliantly funny movie, "Bullets Over Broadway," was "no black gangsters" in the cast. Too bad. Al Sharpton was available, and, with any luck, soon will be looking for work.
	MAYOR BILL DE BLASIO
	Proving that the New York Daily News beats The New York Times everytime, Mayor De Blasio showed up 35 minutes late for his Times interview last week but was right on time to officiate at his first wedding ceremony at City Hall. That would be mine.