
	How did things get so contentious with Bill de Blasio, the press and the voters so fast? Even David Dinkins had a honeymoon of sorts — until we found out that his honeymoon period involved an $11,500 marital headboard for Gracie Mansion. Cancel the flight, call the divorce lawyers.
	But de Blasio, six weeks into the gig, is already in pissing matches with everyone over everything.
	Let's start with the pre-K brawl. Everybody agrees pre-K is a great thing, which is why we voted for the guy who pushed it in the first place. We even voted for the way he was going to get pre-K for us by taxing city millionaires.
	Now it's not just contentious with the governor, but incendiary with the voters, because he's using buzz words that are raising eyebrows — as well as tempers.
	For example, last week Bill and Chirlane showed up at an African-American church to push the pre-K agenda and ended up pushing buttons instead.
	Chirlane, literally preaching to the choir, gave a speech calling pre-K "the defining civil rights issue of our day," and quoting Frederick Douglass, the mayor said, "Didn't the great man once tell us, 'Power yields nothing without a demand?' " What? We're talking about kids going to school a year earlier, not slavery. It brought back the chaplain who called New York City a plantation at the inauguration.
	RELATED: STASI: POLITICIANS LIKE REP. MICHAEL GRIMM ARE LIKE FORMER CHILD STARS
	We voted for de Blasio because we were desperate for change, and I really believe he's the guy who can give it to us.
	Yes, we want New York City, not the state, to pay for pre-K. None of us want to become dependent on upstate to dole out money to us yearly as an allocation.
	And despite the way Gov. Cuomo is making it seem, paying our own way is not a radical, new idea.
	We've had dedicated city taxes imposed before, such as with "Safe Streets/Safe Cities," which added 7,000 cops to the force.
	But that proposal had to be voted on by the Legislature in the swamps of Albany. Ticking off the crocodiles, or in this case the land animals, never works.
	As for getting his pal Bishop Orlando Findlayter sprung from the can, de Blasio did it as he promised, transparently — admitting he had made the call to inquire but not to demand. But was it any different from what we've had before? Yes, definitely — in execution, if not intent.
	I know of one previous mayor who got a gun-toting pal sprung on more than one occasion, no nuances necessary, no transparency needed as far as he was concerned.
	So, let's all take a deep breath and calm down. We're talking about preachers and 4-year-olds. In the words of Rodney King, "Can't we all just get along?" Wait, does that sound incendiary?
	IT'S A SNOW JOB
	Al Roker took time out from watching humans perform incomprehensible feats of athleticism in incomprehensible amounts of snow in Sochi to tweet that Mayor de Blasio should have closed the city public schools even though we had less than 10 inches of snow. What?
	Worse, Al then forecast that keeping the schools open would guarantee that de B would be a one-term mayor.
	Afterwards, he soaked in a hot tub with Matt Lauer, while soaking up the good life at the snow-covered Olympic village.
	Hell, if snow is so dangerous, he should have demanded that the Ruskies close down the Olympics as well.
	Wanna bet that Putin on the Ritz just loved having a prominent American citizen dis an American mayor for making kids go to school in the snow like he was sending them to a frozen gulag?
	How is it that we New Yorkers have become such wimps raising such wimps that walking to the subway or the bus through some sloppy snow is unthinkable?
	Keeping kids home from school when it's snowing is always an option. But for those who can't keep their kids home, it's never an option.
	Come on! It's just snow and this ain't Atlanta. What next? We'll probably make kids wear helmets to have snowball fights.
	RELATED: STASI: WOODY ALLEN, MIA FARROW DRAMA WORTHY OF A TALK SHOW
	THE PLAYAHS CLUB OPEN
	Mamas, don't let your babies grow up to be players.
	Take the case of Philip Seymour Hoffman. If he had been a not-famous heroin addict, his choice of women would be limited to the ones lying on the streets. But once guys become famous, women throw themselves at them faster than Masahiro Tanaka can throw a strike. Cops found diaries that revealed Hoffman took up with another woman. Rich and famous doesn't give you a pass from misery and horror ... it's just more public.
	PHOTOS: STARS SAY GOODBYE AT PHILIP SEYMOUR HOFFMAN'S FUNERAL
	CALL IT FASHION WEAK 2014
	Designers at Fashion Week finally brought us wearable clothing that everyone needs, can afford and can almost fit into. Gone were the ridiculous "Walking Dead" zombie getups of past shows and in their place were fresh and friendly office-to-party clothes like angry Puritan frocks and SM bondage wear. Nothing says strictly business like pasties and a whip.
	BETHENNY CANCELED
	It's enough to send a skinny girl to an all-you-can-eat buffet. Bethenny Frankel, a star of the original "Real Housewives of New York" but never a real housewife (especially after she got married), is no longer a real talk show host either. But then again it was always more of a real screech show than a real talk show.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Olympic Lesson No. 1: You'll get more attention from the media if you sweep your stones in a thong and spike heels than you'll ever get sweeping your house in giant cotton underwear and fuzzy slippers... Time for a Diaper Change: Because it's just not enough to have a blue line pop up on a diaper to show parents when a diaper needs changing, two Japanese professors have developed a diaper doohickey (in this case a doo-doohickey) that sends a text to parents to alert them. Sure beats sticking your finger in there. But you still have to wave a scanner over the baby's little bits. Ditto for Depends. Bet hackers won't be tracking those scans for identity theft... Garden Show: The best-looking bitches strutting their stuff for the adoring crowds this week — from Sky to Coco — weren't the SM fashion models at the Lincoln Center tents, although they did wear collars and leashes and sported a huge amount of bizarre hair and fur. These models weren't pounding the runway for Thom Browne, they were trotting around the Garden at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show.
	PHOTOS: SEXIEST ATHLETES AT THE SOCHI WINTER OLYMPICS
	JESUS WEEPS IN ARGENTINA
	Looking for a good time?
	A theme park in Buenos Aires will let you live the Crucifixion, complete with a live Jesus who gets whipped and crucified during Easter.
	And if that's not fun enough, a robo-Jesus then rises from a giant, plastic tomb.
	Think a Playmobile version of a grave with a giant biblical Ken doll popping out of the top.
	McLoaves and fishes are unlimited and tourists caught stealing souvenirs are immediately pardoned for their sins.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com
	@lindastasi