
	No more pesky "Dancing with the Stars," or adult Depends commercials to revive that fading showbiz career. Now you can grab the headlines without enduring those grindingly miserable 7-hour paso doble practices with impossibly fit partners, or having to humiliate yourself on national TV by fronting for Depends after you clearly peed in your pants while on "DWTS."
	Now you just need to act out like a crazy in public, then very publicly apologize, while simultaneously announcing that — yes! — you are going to rehab.
	No matter how often you have relapsed or how much of a D-lister you are, the media will cover your breakdown like it's a natural disaster of epic proportions.
	Best of all? You no longer need to do life-threatening drugs, shave your head, let your makeup run or risk huge weight gain, by drinking until you've got alcohol poisoning.
	Now there's a rehab for every kind of bad behavior.
	Cheat on your wife? Do a Dean McDermott and enter cheaters rehab!
	Just can't stop hanging out with ruthless dictators like Kim Jong Un? Do a Dennis Rodman and get your ass to rehab!
	Want to become Liza Minnelli when you grow up? Pop a Lindsay Lohan move and enter, leave, enter and leave rehab.
	The great thing is that behavior has led to a whole new category: Recidivist rehab!
	Of course, when you're riding er, high, you don't need to rely on rehab. The big disgraceful display is enough, rendering rehab a reliable fallback publicity position. Take those two high-flying, wild Canadians, Justin Bieber and Toronto mayor Rob Ford, who live like Amy Winehouse and always say, "No! No! No!"
	Last week, Ford pulled off yet another spectacular crash-and-burn at a fast-food restaurant. Where did you expect Ford to explode? At a Weight Watchers meeting?
	After the debacle, Ford declared again that his flareups and meltdowns are strictly a private matter, no matter how spectacularly public they are.
	JUSTIN BIEBER SPOTTED WITH CHANTEL JEFFRIES ON PANAMA BEACH TWO DAYS AFTER DUI ARREST
	Bieber apparently told a model in a Miami strip club basically the same thing before he went nuts on the cops who tried to arrest him in Miami for speeding, DUI and resisting arrest after his pals blocked off a street so he and rapper Khalil could drag-race. What is this,1954?
	Truthfully, the Miami police should be called out for dereliction of duty for not giving him a summons for wearing what looked like either the worst leather shorts since the dirndl went out of favor, or a giant skort, which has never been in favor.
	The arrest and refusal to board a plane with his mom, who wants him to go to rehab, did earn Bieber the one thing his friends like Lil Zam and Lil Twist have that he doesn't - his own nom de rap: Lil Twit.
	FLUSHING CASH
	Karma is definitely on Bernie Madoff's side and he's screwing us out of money again - and once again with the government's blessing.
	Madoff has been treated for a heart attack at Duke University hospital on our dime.
	Worse, after being released after a nearly month-long stay, he's now whining that he has kidney disease. Who wouldn't rather be at Duke being waited on hand and heart than in prison?
	BERNIE MADOFF RECOVERING FROM HEART ATTACK, BATTLING KIDNEY CANCER AS HE ROTS IN FEDERAL PRISON
	If Bernie whines loud enough, maybe they'll even send him home on a "compassionate release" like they did with repugnant terror-conspirator lawyer Lynne Stewart.
	Clearly some prisoners are just more equal than others. Remember when John Gotti was diagnosed with cancer and then had a heart attack? He was treated like an animal before he died, according to his family.
	His daughter Victoria Gotti told me, "Madoff, perhaps, is not considered a dangerous man — despite stealing the lives of thousands.
	"When my dad was in an ICU unit after a chemo-induced heart attack, he was shackled to a bed with three guards posted outside. Random acts of kindness by nurses seemed to so infuriate the warden that our visit was terminated and Dad was shipped back to Marion the next morning at 5 a.m."
	But Bernie? Bernie does Duke.
	SHIA NOT SHY ABOUT RIPOFFS
	In case you missed this big only-in-Hollwood scandal, Shia LaBeouf (the actor, not the Muslim sect) not only stole the plot for his latest film from cartoonist Daniel Clowes, but when he got nailed for plagiarism, he wrote an apology that was, yes, stolen as well. The guy is like the second storyman of words.
	The actor says the thievery really wasn't theivery at all, but "performance art," a kind of beouf-ed up versions of the originals.
	He then boasted, ah, posted on his Twitter page for the uniformed among us, that, "Performance art has been a way of appealing directly to a large public."
	SHIA LABEOUF PULLS A JOAQUIN PHOENIX, SAYS RECENT BIZARRE BEHAVIOR WAS 'PERFORMANCE ART' 
	Clearly, he didn't steal that sentence from anyone because he's the only human on the planet who thinks performance art reaches a large public anything. Or even a small one.
	Performance art is usually as annoying as mimes in the park, and as unavoidable as the mariachis strolling toward your table in a Mexican restaurant.
	Bottom line? LaBeouf's full of beouf.
	BOOM OR BUST?
	So will Sunday's winners of the Best New Artist Grammy succumb to the curse, or soar to the heights? Winners are often doomed to become one-hit wonders or cheesy laughingstocks. Take Milli Vanilli for example. How about Marc Cohn, Starland Vocal Band and Debby Boone? But, there were Mariah Carey, Crosby, Stills  Nash, Amy Winehouse, Adele and John Legend.
	UNSPORTSMANLIKE FINE
	Why in hell was Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman fined $7,875 for unsportsmanlike conduct on Friday, while the guy who displayed really unsportsmanlike conduct, San Fran's Michael Crabtree, wasn't? Sherman had extended his hand to Crabtree — and was met with a shove in the face by Crabtree, which caused Sherman to fake a choking gesture. So remember, kids — shoving is fine, threatening isn't.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Polar expression: The weather is not changing, damn it! We're just adding new words to our vocabularies like "polar vortex" to explain what isn't changing ...
	Go figure: If you're Jamie Dimon and it costs your bank $20 billion in legal costs under your watch, you get a 74% raise. If you're a New York City public servant and accept a $50 meal from anyone who does business with the city, you could go to jail ...
	Zero tolerance: What's with the Russians that they can't find a scarred, limping female terrorist with one good arm in a city full of perfect Olympians? ...
	A-Dopey: How is it possible that Adobe gets updated more often than Kim Kardashian's Instagram account?
	SNOW-WHERE TO BE SEEN
	Somehow the fury of the winter storm and subzero temperatures took a back seat to the fury of Upper East Siders whose snow wasn't cleaned as quickly as they have come to expect.
	In other words, they were being treated the same way people in the boroughs have been treated for decades.
	As one woman sniffed when I mentioned that to her, "We are much more diverse here than you think! It used to be just millionaires, but now there are millionaires and billionaires."