Constituents must be putting a lot of pressure on Rep. Rafael Anchia in regard to the Trinity toll road project. That's the only reason I can figure for him to jump into this contentious issue, which is exactly what he is doing by conducting a survey of residents' attitudes toward the road. He's also promising to host a town hall on the results.Good for Rep. Anchia! After all, his district covers parts of West Dallas, north Oak Cliff and the Stemmons Corridor, all of which will be directly affected by the toll road. Residents of north Oak Cliff and West Dallas have been among the biggest critics of the road.Don't expect Anchia to tip his hand until the results are in, but it'll be interesting to see what he does if the final report is overwhelmingly negative. Anchia has been a steady partner for Mayor Rawlings (and vice versa), working most recently as the head of the City Charter Review commission. With Rawlings — and a majority of the council — strong supporters of the toll road, it's hard for me to imagine Anchia creating any anti-toll road speed bumps in Austin.However, Anchia presumably wants to continue winning his constituents' votes. So do Dallas council members, who are all on the ballot — or term-limited out — come May. The Trinity could be a deciding factor for many voters. Call me gullible (and Rodger Jones probably will), but I don't think voters want this road any more.Most any news development related to the Trinity can be parsed  in diametrically opposing ways, depending on which side of the argument you are on. Consider this week's announcement about investors' plans for a big purchase of land in the Design District.I spent the first part of this morning listening as one side made a convincing case for why such projects show that the toll road is not needed for  economic development to take place in the urban core. (The pro-road folks have said in the past that the road is vital for such development to continue to occur.)Then I got an earful from another source about how the toll road, and an interchange not far from the Design District, is exactly what this investor group is looking for — and that this announcement illustrates why deep-pocket folks will make sure this toll road gets built. It's the real estate, stupid. (And surprise — another top real estate source told me the toll road was a non-issue in this Tim Headington-and-others deal in the Design District.)[Update: I want to add the exact quote from the knowledgeable source referenced above  -- someone who really know the players but who doesn't have a dog in this hunt. When asked whether the toll road was a factor in the Headington. deal, he responded: Absolutely not a factor. Wasn't even on their radar.]Then there is colleague Mike Hashimoto's point ... and my last blog post on this topic.Mike is right when he says the people have spoken twice — although given how long this thing has dragged on and all that has changed since then, I think maybe there's time to, yes, triple check with the voters.No one has persuaded me that building another highway — wherever or whenever we build it — will really make any difference, long term, in highway congestion. And since I believe that to be the case, I'd much rather see the city lobbying to put funding into, say, the idea Dallas architecture firm boss Ralph Hawkins wrote about in July. In his article, Hawkins said this about the toll road:Although the vision of Trinity Park is evolving, Gail Thomas, Deedie Rose, Brent Brown and others will make it happen. But the Trinity toll road within the levees remains a concern, as it is in the floodway and also another obstacle between downtown and the river. This toll road will attract through-traffic that should be diverted around Dallas. Larry Beasley's lecture last month emphasized eliminating these barriers, not adding to them. Support remains for the toll road, but we recognize it is growing in controversy.You don't have to read farther than this blog, which represents the individual points of view of all of our editorial staff, to see that we are not of one mind on the Trinity toll road. But I do know this: As we begin next week to formally listen to key players in this debate, readers can count on me (and I think I speak for everyone) to keep an open mind. And yes, I will even listen to any new argument about the toll road easing congestion.Certainly, it would be easier to say, "been there, done that." We have devoted what seems like years to digging into this issue in my tenure on the editorial board. But clearly a lot of Dallas folks haven't moved on — and IMHO we need to give that fact careful consideration.