
	A carriage horse named Spartacus fell over outside Central Park the other day, which, bizarrely enough, sent animal-loving real estate developers into spasms of ecstacy.
	An injured horse is exactly what they needed to further their agenda of getting carriage horses out of the city. (Which in turn would free up the valuable real estate where the stables are located.)
	Spartacus was immediately seen by a veterinarian, found to be unharmed and took the rest of the day off.
	That didn't stop anti-horse carriage lobbying groups like NYCLASS, founded by parking lot/real estate mogul Steve Nislick, from getting a story out that the incident was caused when a bus came too close to Spartacus, which spooked him and made him fall over, taking his carriage with him.
	The story is a tall, er, tail, according to drivers who were there. In fact, buses don't go near the spot where the horses line up, according to a horse-carriage spokesman. And if they did come that close on routine runs? Then neither the animal rights people, the city, nor the carriage industry would be doing their jobs.
	It appears that Spartacus tumbled only because his carriage got tangled up with another rig. But that didn't stop Mayor de Blasio from running with the NYCLASS story, or from saying the incident showed why horses shouldn't be on the street. What?
	If that were true, than de Blaz should have been busy firing the reckless bus driver instead of rushing to comment on an inaccurate story.
	Question: If the NYCLASS and ASPCA folks are so concerned with horses being in traffic, why don't they feel the same way about the million dogs who are walked in New York City traffic every day?
	While the city's branch of the ASPCA doesn't have statistics about dog accidents, an estimated one million dogs are hit by cars in the U.S. every year, as opposed to only six vehicular accidents involving horses in New York City since 2007.
	Maybe NYCLASS should spend less time trying to get the city to replace horses with their $150,000 fake antique cars, and instead use their considerable resources to get further into our business and ban dogs too. I mean, who needs pets? How about a bill to send all city dogs and horses to bucolic Amish farms in Pennsylvania among humans who aren't even allowed to use cars or motor vehicles?
	Of course, that could present a problem too, since the Amish only get around by horse and buggy, and they do use horses to pull farm equipment, which are both against NYCLASS rules.
	Note to Mayor de B: Can we get real here? Even the FBI is looking into the antics of the classless moguls of NYCLASS. Isn't it time to derail this wrong-headed campaign, as well as the very suspect motives of those behind it? NYCLASS is taking us for a ride.
	PUTIN'S HOT WAR AND SIDE DISH
	Who's got it better than Vlad the Impaler? Nobody, that's who.
	First, the crazed egomaniac sent masked Russian troops to invade Crimea disguised as unafiliated pro-Russian militiamen (who happened to have billions in equipment), then he laughed at the other super powers as they debated whether the soldiers really were Russian.
	Later, against all warnings, he did the same in Eastern Ukraine, saying again that the invading troops weren't Russian, while the rest of the super powers issued meaningless warnings and again debated whether the masked men were Russian or not. Who did they think they were — Lone Ranger impersonators!
	Fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, and I'm a schmuck.
	But it wasn't always this way. Before Putin began taking other countries like a cat burglar, he occupied himself doing backflips with half-his-age knock-out Olympic gymnast Alina Kabayeva, tossing wife Lyudmila to the mat, and telling jounalists to keep "their snotty noses" out of it.
	It worked so well, he's using the same technique to take back the Soviet Union.
	Who's got it better than Vlad the Impaler? Nobody, that's who.
	PUTIN'S GIRLFRIEND ALINA KABAEVA
	The only thing flexible about Putin is his gymnast girlfriend Alina Kabaeva, who replaced ex-wife Lyudmila.
	BRUCE JEN-EX
	The Kardashians have two great talents: Publicizing their sexploits, and getting plastic surgery.
	So then, how in hell did they let Bruce Jenner, ex of Kris and father to some of the brood, go to a $2 plastic surgeon?
	Now the former Olympian hunk looks like the hunk-of-junk love child of Joan Rivers and the Dutchess of Alba.
	Sure, the Kardashian women are emasculating enough to make any man want to become a woman, but maybe they just don't want any other women, no matter how newly minted, to look as good as they do.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Privacy Issues: After her miscarriage reveal on national TV, Lindsay Lohan's parents went public to announce that she's doing "fantastic," and then said it was "a private family matter." What? ...Nuke Nut: North Korea is planning an underground nuclear test. With any luck, the ground will be under "Outstanding Leader" II, Kim Jong-Un ...Funny Business: Governor Rick Perry wants to recruit New York City businesses to Texas. Does anybody have Steve Nislick's number?...No- Sex Sells: If Dean McDermott is telling the truth about how infrequently he had sex with Tori Spelling, how did they end up with 7,000 kids? ...Tan Fan Sham: Drunken Tan Mom, Patrica Krentcil, who looks like an apple head doll, has decided to clean up her act. She'll be boxing embarrassing mom/You Tuber, Ang Cottone. At the press conference they got into a fake brawl, which gave their kids even more reasons to hide in their rooms for the rest of their lives.
	MICHAEL GRIMM
	It's Looking Grimm : Expletive-spouting, rage-aholic Conressman Michael Grimm, who once threatend NY1 reporter Michael Scotto saying, "I'll throw you off this f---ing balcony" for asking about campaign finance irregularities, is now actually facing federal criminal charges for shady business dealings. His response to the charges? "I'll throw myself off this f-----g balcony."
	NOT TAKING THE RAP
	Thank God she didn't stand by her man this time.
	Judy Rapfogel — who is the wife of charity thief William Rapfogel, as well as Sheldon Silver's chief of staff — didn't show up in court last week to support her thieving husband, who stole over a million dollars from the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty.
	Clearly, Judy chose not to pull a Silda Spitzer/Dina McGreevey and further humiliate herself by standing by her scam man. Anyway, look what happened to those good women: McGreevey ran off with another man and Spitzer ran off with a younger woman. Standing by a no-good man never does a woman any good, so good for Judy.
	PINEADA'S PINE-ING FOR A BREAK
	How is it possible in this day and age that nobody has invented clear pine to make cheating in the big leagues more transparent?
	Until that happens, we should give Yankees pitcher Michael Pineada a(nother) break. Pineda didn't know that smearing his neck with pine tar was illegal. Really. He thought a new rule had been created especially for him: "Pine? Da!"