
	She's just another sleazy hooker with a book and now she's looking to turn the rest of us into Eliot Spitzer.
	I'm talking about Rebecca Woodard, the latest lowlife whore with a tell-all to come crawling out of the muck claiming she had sex with Client No. 9, the chokehold ex-gov, who keeps popping up more often than his infamous moving man parts. And we're all her Client No. 10 if we buy into her horse crap and worse if we buy her book.
	These hookers can't all be telling the truth or the steamroller governor wouldn't have had enough time left to be a steamroller, baby.
	Woodard's looking to get free publicity by whining about her plight in life as a harried, single mother who only turned to hooking to pay legal fees to regain custody of her child who had been snatched by the girl's father, a famous rocker, who was incidentally later awarded full custody.
	Truth? Legal bills do not force single mothers into prostitution. I know this because I was a single mother who had legal bills, but one who actually worked several legit jobs for a living, and did not get child support.
	Woodard's baby daddy, meantime, is Spin Doctors singer Chris Barron, who had clearly gotten er, hooked by the self-described "shy, innocent Christian girl."
	So how did a sweet, shy, Southern Christian girl meet a rocker like Barron? No, they didn't meet through a pastor, but at a penthouse party in NYC. Right. How many of those hooker-and-stripper-filled parties have you been invited to? That's what I thought.
	Barron and Woodard never married but did have enough unprotected sex often enough for Woodard to get pregnant and ensure herself a child's lifetime worth of support from a famous man.
	But why would he then snatch their child? At the time, said shy Christian girl just happened to be living with an ex-con rapist! A mother who cares for her child does not under any circumstance bring a convicted rapist into her home, let alone allow him to live under the same roof as her daughter. But then again, a mother who cares for her child also doesn't write books exposing herself and shaming her child.
	Woodard now cries that she became a high-priced hooker by "mistakenly" answering a Craigslist ad for "models." She ended up hooking the next day, and then earning five figures at night. Child support and a job at Viacom weren't enough to keep her in the life and later the legal bills to which she had become accustomed, I guess.
	Worst of all, however, is that Woodard claims she was later forced into sexual slavery by the Manhattan DA, who made her trap johns with a recorder hidden inside the $1,000 Chanel bag they bought her even though she was making up to $24,000 a single job — don't ask — hooking (without I'm sure, filing taxes).
	Sex slaves are women and children who are sold into prostitution, are beaten and starved, raped and often killed. They don't carry Chanel bags, work for $24,000 and screw governors for fun and profit.
	This hooker, oh, sorry, "author," contradicts herself by then saying she didn't reveal all her calls to the prosecutors because she didn't want to turn over her illegal fees. On what planet is it considered sexual slavery to not put a recorder into your $1,000 Chanel bag when you go hooking of your own free will?
	Woodard is not just a hooker but a thief who most likely didn't claim those $24,000 prostitution fees on her income taxes, and stole from us once again by getting a public defender who threatened a suit against the city!
	Bottom line: If you buy her book or book her on your show, you are her next Eliot Spitzer — except this time the hooker's got you in a chokehold.