I almost feel sorry for Oncor, which is in charge of electricity delivery in North Texas. If the provider isn't being beat about the head for denuding the trees that make our Dallas neighborhoods so great, it's taking it in the shorts for power outages that are partly attributable to those same trees pulling down power lines in a storm.But don't overlook the word almost in that first sentence. Before I'm ready to put the onus squarely on tree-loving residents, I first want some straight answers from Oncor in regard to questions raised in a recent Public Utility Commission hearing.  After recent storms left some North Texas residents without power for four days, PUC decided to look into the matter. A DMN story Sunday notes that PUC commissioner Ken Anderson used Oncor's own filings to show that its maintenance spending decreased more than 20 percent between 2005 and 2013. Meanwhile, the company's customer base increased 9 percent during that time, to 3.2 million.A reasonable person might ask whether Oncor is shorting its maintenance work to increase its profits. Anderson questioned whether, in fact, Oncor was paying too much profit to its parent, Energy Future Holdings, which filed for bankruptcy this year.Not so, company executives maintained during the hearing. But surprise — they have offered no documentation supporting their claim.So I'll withhold my sympathy until Oncor provides a better answer. (The DMN story, by James Osborne, noted that Oncor has promised to increase its tree-trimming budget more than 40 percent next year to $35 million. But for credibility's sake, Oncor still needs to show us the proof that it hasn't been cutting the maintenance budget in previous years. Facts, not promises, are what's needed.)Yet we residents have a responsibility when it comes to these no-electricity-after-a-storm fiascoes, especially those of us who live in areas such as East Dallas, where stately old trees have woven spider webs of branches around the power lines.The rule is that trees and power lines must be separated by a minimum of 6 feet. I drove a four-block square off Abrams and Vanderbilt this morning and spotted dozens of branch-encased power lines. Not to mention power poles and supporting apparatus that looked pretty sketchy.And I have no doubt that many residents have had the same experience as Minakshi Patel, whose story Osborne tells below: Patel, a nurse who lives in East Dallas, can see Oncor's maintenance issues firsthand on nights when the wind is blowing particularly hard. The power line running across her back yard will brush up against a neighbor's oak, sending sparks down on her grass and plants. Oncor's website instructs customers to call 911 if they see "sparking, arcing or burning near the line or in the tree branches touching the line."But when Patel calls, nothing."At one point, I had a supervisor from the fire department here. He got Oncor to send someone out. The man said, 'This is very dangerous and I'll be back in an hour with some help,'" Patel said late last month. "That was four weeks ago."However, in many cases, start messing with folks' trees and there's hell to pay. Lawsuits, sob stories to the media, virtual "sit-ins." A quick search of DMN archives turned up plenty of news articles about protests against Oncor tree-cutting. Here's a typical quote: "cutting these trees to these severest conditions is like ripping the fabric of a city. It's like ripping the heart out of a home or neighborhood."You'll probably recall the big stink back in 2010 from neighborhood groups furious about seeing their trees cut back. Osborne writes: "That's when Oncor agreed to trim no more than 7 feet from the line. Before, the standard was more than 10 feet, allowing a few years of growth before the tree breached the 6-foot standard."No, Oncor doesn't always cut the trees to suit us, even when it gets around to trimming them. (Frankly, I'm not sure HOW you can elegantly trim a tree that's in a utility line right-of-way, short of having deep, deep pockets to pay a first-class crew.) And having spent two decades in a tree-deficient flat suburb, I dread any tree limb I have to take down.So we all have to take action: Oncor needs to prove up that its not shorting maintenance to boost profits and residents need to be more pro-active in keeping the trees on our properties away from the lines. If we don't like the way Oncor does the cutting, we need to hire our own outfit — and pay the price.How much of the problem is residential stubbornness over aesthetics or Oncor's negligence, I don't know. But I do know that we've got to address the increasing number of outages. 