
	It's not her men, it's the media.
	Rachel Noerdlinger, Chirlane McCray's $170,000 chief of staff, now on leave, is so blinded by the males in her life — from her killer boyfriend to her troubled son, to her mentor ex-boss Al Sharpton — that she's blaming the media for her son's troubles instead of herself.
	Once again, we have an extreme case of smart woman, idiotic choices. How does a woman as successful as Noerdlinger allow a man as horrifying as career criminal, convicted killer, cop-hater and blatant racist Hassaun McFarlan to share a home with herself and her son?
	She does this by putting the lowlife boyfriend before everything and everyone, that's how. She keeps McFarlan — who posts illiterate anti-woman, homophobic rants such as "i feel the same way ma if a broad try that s--- with me she gettin curbed i think dudes who like that s--- are in the closet watch these dudes" — as her man despite it all. But in whose footsteps is her son now following — his mother's or her gigolo's?
	But Noerdlinger isn't the first, nor will she be the last smart woman to go stupid over a man; to stand by a man who is not a stand-up guy. Clue: There's a big difference between a bad boy and a bad man.
	SMART WOMEN MAKING DUMB CHOICES ALL-STARS
	Lifetime Achievement Award: Hillary Clinton
	Stood by her man even when her man had legions of women kneeling at his, er, feet.
	Most Likely to Earn a Lifetime Achievement Award: Huma Abedin
	Taking a cue from her boss — mentioned above — Huma stayed when politician and husband Anthony Weiner tweeted out naked pictures of himself. And when he did it again, ooops, she did it again, too.
	My Picker's Broken Award: Halle Berry
	The self-named award is for the woman who loved abusers and cheaters. On what planet can a man find someone hotter than Halle Berry?
	What Were You Thinking Award: Sandra Bullock
	Smart, insanely successful and gorgeous, she married a cheating motorcycle reality star named for an infamous criminal. Worse, Jesse James is now married to, yes, an heiress.
	Oh Right You Weren't Thinking Award: Lis Smith
	Smart, beautiful, and idiotic, the political operative for Bill de Blasio's mayoral campaign hooked up with the Luv Guv, Eliot Spitzer, and was then not hired by de Blasio. De Blasio thinks Spitzer is so bad, he'd rather keep on a woman whose boyfriend is a killer than hire a woman whose boyfriend is a hooker lover.
	Even a Spy Can Be an Idiot Award: "Homeland's" Carrie Mathison
	Bi-polar and bi-continental, Carrie lost it and then almost lost it all for a man who looked like Doogie Howser gone bad.
	NO BLAZ OF GLORY ON AIDE
	It's impossible to understand how staffers let Bill de Blasio take even the best two days of his administration and turn them into a controversial hatefest.
	At his inaugural, if you remember, as the new mayor stood with his bi-racial family, racist-sounding Sanitation Department chaplain Fred Lucas instead saw NYC as a plantation! What?
	Then this Monday, instead of celebrating the fantastic news that our city now has the lowest crime rate in 20 years, Mayor de Blasio took time out to seethe to reporters that the reporting on Rachel Noerdlinger's boyfriend and son was akin to McCarthyism.
	And that was akin to saying the Falklands War was World War Two with penguins.
	This administration needs new spinners or a whole new spinning wheel.
	AN OPEN LETTER TO CLOSED MIND
	To: Mr. Emil Michael, Senior VP, Uber
	From: Former Uber Lover
	How is it possible that you just trashed a million bucks of good will by telling other fat cats to spend a million bucks to smear reporters who dare to diss Uber for fighting regulation.
	Or maybe it's the reporters who write about surge pricing — or better yet, surge gouging, a practice that needs not to be regulated but to be outlawed.
	You said a good way to discredit reporters was to hire people to dig into "your personal lives, your families." First off, a reporter wouldn't mix up the folks he's talking to with the folks he's talking about, and secondly, Uber should fire your fat cat ass immediately.
	Note to Mayor de Blasio — Michael's rant is what real McCarthyism sounds like.
	FROM PENIS FRENZY TO BUCK BUTT
	A St. Louis mom waterboarded her child; an Arizonian used donations for her kids to fund her boyfriend's rap album; a Floridian killed and cooked her neighbor; a Mexican killed his friend and fed the penis to his dog; an upstate New Yorker hauling a buck in a bucket was shot in the butt by another hunter.
	Yet New York City, with the lowest crime rate since 1994 and not one case of penis pet food or buckshot butt gets the bad rap?
	CLASS CUTUPS
	In a case of too much is never enough, the children of Will Smith and Jada Pinkett, Jaden and Willow, sounding like two spoiled space aliens from one of their dad's sci-fi movies, told the New York Times T Magazine that school is unnecessary. No, they don't go to school, although Willow went for one year. Sixteen-year-old Jaden added that "school is not authentic because it ends." So are those movies he made, despite the fact that they felt endless.
	TALK ABOUT ROAMING CHARGES
	A Welsh widow resorted to bringing her husband's ashes to T-Mobile in an attempt to get the wireless company to cancel his cellphone and stop harassing her. It didn't work. Understandable. Sort of. How would the poor woman prove the ashes really are his and not from his late great cigar?