
	Like a bad $41 million penny, it keeps turning up - the Central Park Five case. And one black officer wants to know why, in all the furor, that his name and that of the other black arresting officer were left off the racial-bias suit against the city.
	First, there was the case, then the dismissal, then Ken Burns' documentary, then the settlement by Mayor de Blasio, then Sunday's front page Daily News story detailing the former administration's push for a trial of the lawsuit, followed by the call to The News by the CP5 themselves demanding a final clearing of their names.
	If you remember, one of de Blasio's first orders of business was to make good on his campaign promise to settle the CP5 case. And he did. For $41 million big ones, despite the former administration's push not to settle.
	Yet, in all of this, one troubling question remains: Why were the two black arresting officers, Rudy Hall and Eric Reynolds - who himself arrested five of the black CP5 defendants - never named in the lawsuit that claimed racial bias by the cops?
	And the main person asking that question is African-American retired detective Eric Reynolds himself. "I wasn't named and Rudy Hall wasn't named. Why?"
	According to one official who wishes to remain anonymous, "Yes, more than 20 white officers were named, even though most of whom had no contact with these five!"
	So I asked a lawyer for the CP5, Myron Beldock, why the two black officers were left off the racially motivated charge. His answer: "I'm not going to tell you." What?
	"This conversation has to go in another direction," he demanded. What direction? It couldn't head any further south! Then it did.
	"Did you read the names?" he barked. I told him that yes I had. But Myron wasn't having any of it. "I'm not answering you."
	So I didn't get to ask him why - if Reynolds says he was the first police officer to use the term "wilding" and to call them a "wolfpack" in his arrest report - he wasn't named in the suit against the cops for bias.
	I didn't get to tell him that Reynolds said, "I never saw a 'white conspiracy' to deprive these kids of their civil rights."
	But as the former city official told me, immediately after being appointed as the new corporation counsel, Zachary Carter "told (those involved in the case) that, like it or not, it was going to be settled. The only issue was how much, whether we believe it right or wrong. Ugly stuff."
	Ugly indeed. Like that $41 million penny, this nasty story gets more tarnished with every passing year.
	If Mormon prophet Joseph Smith were alive today, he wouldn't have been shot to death by an angry mob, he'd have his own reality show. "40 Wives and Counting."
	Now an essay has been published by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints in which a 14-year-old girl who claimed to be married to Joseph Smith says he had 40 wives, and the prophet told her that he didn't mean to take other men's wives, but that an angel made him do it.
	At least he didn't say the devil made him do it. Current members of the Mormon church are shocked - shocked! -- that Smith had as many as 40 wives. Who isn't shocked? Wikipedia names at least 50.
	Nicki Does Nazi
	Nicki Minaj semi-apologized for the Nazi-themed imagery on her new music video, "Only," by tweeting, "I didn't come up w/the concept, but I'm very sorry  take full responsibility if it has offended anyone." Then she said that the person overseeing it is not just Jewish but a best friend.
	Ah, taking full responsibility means you don't say you didn't come up with the concept, or that the artist happens to be your Jewish best friend.
	That's like saying "one of my best friends is black." Or, "I didn't realize that lynching slaves in cartoons is offensive."
	Meantime, no one is complaining that the video also happens to be as demeaning to women as the Turkish commercial with the führer selling shampoo. Only thing is: Drake, featured in the video, is also Jewish.
	Was that international or interstellar relations they were trying for? Prez Obamahad the nerve to give Vladimir Putin the cold shoulder at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summitwhile both menwere dressed like the gay monks from outer space in SyFy's old "Lexx" series. Based on Obama's demeanor towards theKGB-turned-demonic president of Russia, the chance for cooperation - economic or political - has about as much chanceof succeeding as "Lexx."
	It's not pot luck any longer if you get busted with an ounce or less of weed in the city. How much is that? From the happy look on Bill Bratton's face, it looked like it was a bit less than the ounce bag he was holding. Too bad it was oregano.
	Speaking of all things demonic, a Dayton, Ohio, mother was shocked and disgusted when the princess wand she bought for her 2-year-old daughter turned out to have a demonic girl slicing her wrists under the mirror. What's worse, making little girls aspire to be princesses, which is about as aspirational as hoping to be a mermaid, or finding a cackling demon girl under the mirror? Why the shock? After all, sooner or later all fairytale princesses encounter a cackling female demon in the mirror.