
	Political correctness — as we know it — has finally died the death it has so richly deserved. But don't get up and start doing the happy dance so fast. PC, the scourge of logic, has this week officially morphed into something much more terrifying Perfectly Crazy.
	Even as right-wingers were screaming about poverty-wracked illegal aliens stealing our jobs (such as those highly coveted lettuce picking and dishwashing gigs), an incestuous couple was challenging the New York State Appeals Court — and winning.
	Yes, in a revolting turn of events, the court unanimously ruled that an uncle's marriage to his half-niece (which would pave the way for citizenship, by the way) was not illegal because those marriages had been permissible in New York until 1893. It was also permissible to force lobotomies on people with social "inconveniences" like depression, homosexuality and mental illnesses too, but we figured out that was, well, insane.
	The geniuses on the Court of Appeals didn't even concern themselves with the possibility of genetic birth disorders from incestuous pairings, saying that full relations with half-relations isn't problematic. That's probably what Hitler's mother said when she married her relative too.
	Also last week in rulings-that-make-you-sick, accused murderer Justo Santos was allowed to walk free because a judge said the legal system took too long to bring him to trial for a 1986 murder. Right. What happened to no statute of limitations for murder?
	Instead of being locked up for life for cold-bloodedly shooting a family man who was protecting his wife, or even for being a fugitive from justice, Justo (an ironic name if ever there was one) was given full U.S. justice, and earlier had been granted U.S. citizenship even though he was on the run.
	Give us your tired, your poor, your coddled masses yearning to be free — to murder or to marry their relatives.
	Then there's Ebola nurse Kaci Hickox, who has made a total mockery of the law. After making a stink, she was released from quarantine and even then she refused self-imposed quarantine. So the court overruled the usual quarantine protocols to let her do as she pleases as long as she reports her temperature every day. And when she objects to that? Exactly.
	We're spinning so out of control that even gamers are getting into the game.
	Last week, a new puzzle game, Twisty Hollow, was released for IOS devices about a mayor turning a town upside down with bizarre rulings; OK, maybe not as wacky as banning soda and carriage horses, but still.
	Yes, my own family is behind the game because, well, apples don't fall far from the tree when it comes to getting a kick out of kicking out rotten apples.
	SWIFT'S A FIT FOR NYC
	Get over it. Newbie New Yorker Taylor Swift's appointment as NYC's Global Welcome Ambassador is actually a perfect fit. She is the new New York; a Disney-fied city in which the only young people who can now settle here are the kids of moguls, oligarchs, soulless corporate raiders and non-threatening, corporate-approved artists.
	On Friday, the uber trendy Orchard Street store, La Petite Mort (French for orgasm), smack in the heart of the old Kosher Corset area, ironically enough hired the famous graffiti artist Chico to paint their gate with an anti-Taylor Swift mural, sniffing that Swift is part of the "gentrification and whitewashing" of New York City.
	What? La Petite Mort sells $550 used Versace dresses where $20 girdle stores used to thrive just a decade ago.
	Is La Petite Mort the solution — or the problem?
	THE REAL MORONS OF NEW JERSEY
	What do bankrupt, convicted fraudsters who owe nearly $13 million do while awaiting jail? Why, they spend maybe $10,000 on a disturbing music video in which their13-year-old daughter gyrates around in a bustier and tiny gold shorts like a child sex slave in a third world country, that's what.
	On Friday, the disturbing video, financed by Teresa and Goombah Giudice starring daughter Gia was released, proving that the sooner these Neanderthals are put behind bars, the better the world will be.
	MID-LIFE MISSING PERSONS
	It's like a Sci-Fi movie — middle aged people are disappearing in the New York/New Jersey area by the dozens.
	On Oct. 12th, Katharine Adams, 50, walked out of her West Village home, leaving behind her keys, cellphone and watch. She's never been seen again, and her mother, Abagail Westlake, says the NYPD missing person's bureau seems to be missing too, since she can't get a call back.
	In January, Wall Street Journal reporter David Bird, 55, took a quick walk without his cell phone or ID, never to be seen again, joining the dozens upon dozens of middle aged people who've gone missing in the area in the last two year alone.
	Even if someone wanted to disappear in 2014, it's nearly impossible. How the hell are all these people vanishing without a trace?
	LOOK BEFORE YOU LAUNCH
	The horrible crash of Virgin Galactic's private spaceship in the Mojave Desert on Friday, which tragically killed the co-pilot and severely injured the pilot, must have even celebs like Justin Bieber, who already flies high, rethinking the wisdom of laying out all that dough to soar with a private spaceship company.
	EXPRESS LINES
	The man who helped discover Ebola says China's at risk because nearly 10,000 people have traveled back to China from Ebola-infested regions since August. Not coincidentally, some experts have blamed China's deforestation of those regions for releasing the virus to the human populace in the first place ... Wendy Williams got in trouble for saying that Bruce Jenner's habit of wearing pink nail polish and getting himself surgically altered to look more feminine would have been devastating to his kids. More devastating even than marrying Kris Jenner?
	LSTASI@NYDAILYNEWS.COM / TWITTER @LINDASTASI