
	Who put the "con" in and took the "serve" out of Conservative?
	Last week, two very visible neo-neo cons, separated by age, gender and weight, but not ideology, proved once again that if you're not a rich, unattractive, aging blowhard male, or a gorgeous younger female who dresses like a hooker and sounds as liberated as Anastasia Steele, you don't belong in their tent. Thank God.
	At a D.C. luncheon (or maybe it was a Tea Party), Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who was born without the genes for shame or empathy, announced, "I don't think there's a mother or father sitting around a kitchen table tonight in America who are saying, 'You know, honey, if my son or daughter could just make a higher minimum wage, my God, all our dreams would be realized. ... Is that what parents aspire to for their children?'"
	Well, considering that nearly half a million New Jersey residents earn minimum wage or barely above it (mostly women and people of color), the answer is a clear "duh."
	Not that it matters to Christie (whose net worth is $5 million big ones) and his higher ambitions, but the minimum wage for a 40-hour week for those constituents breaks down to $17,160 a year, or $6,690 below the poverty level for a family of four.
	Let them eat government cheese!
	
	Then there's Fox fox Kimberly Guilfoyle, becoming more conservative it seems, who actually said on "The Five" that "hot," young women should be excused from voting and jury duty. Why? To get back to online dating, that's why.
	It got worse (if possible). "They're like healthy and hot and running around without a care in the world," she said. Therefore, jury duty and voting should be granted only after a woman has "life experiences" like having babies and paying bills.
	This prompts the question of why Guilfoyle was qualified to vote when she was running around without a care — or much else — in the world as a Victoria's Secret model.
	The next day, she backtracked, or seemed to (it's hard to know what the hell she was talking about), saying, "I take the right to vote very seriously. I take the right to serve on a jury very seriously and I think you should be informed when you do both things."
	So do I! Therefore, in the spirit of being informed: According to the U.S. Census and other resources, only 27% of men between 25 and 34 years of age have a bachelor's degree or higher, as opposed to 35% of the women. Oh. Young males have a much higher arrest record for driving drunk and have more accidents, and fewer wear seat belts than young women, which is why young men pay higher insurance premiums than young women. Maybe Guilfoyle should lose her right to vote until she gets better informed.
	
	After it was revealed by TMZ that Honey Boo Boo's morbidly obese, pathological liar Mama June was shacking up with a subhuman convicted child molester (who molested a child about the same age as Honey), TLC (The Loonie Channel) finally pulled the plug on the show.
	Two questions remain: How in hell did that woman get two men into her bed? Answer: One's a disgusting pervert and the other eats squirrels when he's not hunting for other women online.
	Question 2: Would TLC have killed the show if it was still getting big numbers? Answer: No. Remember how AE kept ratings killer "Duck Dynasty" on despite the fact that the nightmare patriarch advocated child sexual abuse, sermonizing that men should marry 15-year-old girls so they can pick their ducks. Personally, my duck-picking days lasted into my early 20s, but that's just me.
	
	Proud New Yorker: Mayor de Blasio and Gov. Cuomo did us proud by having the state and NYC totally prepared for Ebola. Now everybody calm down! You're more likely to get hit by a crazed bike messenger in front of Bellevue than catch Ebola. Reassuring, right?
	... Disgusted New Yorker: "Confidenti@l's" Brian Niemietz points out that the city has once again pulled together against a common enemy. Not Ebola, but Taylor Swift and her horrible "Welcome to New York" anthem inviting mall girls to come to the city that has "been waiting for you." Clue: No, we're not.
	... Crazy New Yorker: So if you're a doctor who has been working with Ebola patients, wouldn't you think you'd stay away from the bowling alley? Actually, if you didn't have Ebola wouldn't you think you'd stay away from the bowling alley? Only kidding. Who doesn't like to E-Bowl-A lot?
	
	Toys "R" Us capitulated to the demands of an extremely annoying Florida mom who complained and successfully posed an online petition urging Toys "R" Us to stop selling "Breaking Bad" toys because they aren't appropriate for children. But, what, the show is? The "Bad" action figures, for collectors, were sold in the adult section. It's not like they were next to family-friendly toys like the Air Zone Cross Bow! Today, Jesse Pinkman dolls, tomorrow Daryl Dixon.
	
	Is that lady the new Renee Zellweger? Not new as opposed to old, but as opposed to the former Zellweger, the beauty who made puffy cheeks and heavy-lidded eyes the must-have face of Hollywood. But now she has done so much to her mug that she looks like "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills" idea of the must-have face. We would say she was happy with her new frozen features but she can't speak until the spring thaw.
	
	An Aussie CEO picked up a hooker who then stole his Rolex by stashing it in her vagina. David Epstein, the lawyer for Shacarye Tims, was outraged, saying that we should all be ashamed "that a young lady visiting from out of town was bullied by authorities to retrieve an object from the most intimate part of her body." Ashamed? No. Amazed? Yes. It happened to be the largest Rolex model.