
	Spoiler alert! This column will definitely spoil my new marriage, which was performed by Mayor de Blasio. Therefore, I'm putting in an early request that he be kind enough to also preside at my divorce.
	Like all the other New Yorkers who voted for de B, I was as hopeful when he won as I was when President Obama won for the first time. And we know how that turned out.
	
	Everybody loved de B, until he actually became mayor and his "Tale of Two Cities" became a tale of three cities: White, black and the disenfranchised, every-color middle class.
	While New Yorkers appreciate Bill's strong loyalty to even his questionable friends, what happened to loyalty being a two-way street?
	A loyal friend would never have accepted a high-level city job after being arrested for beating a woman in her boyfriend's apartment, continue to live with a convicted killer who smoked weed with a kid in the car, mislead on legal forms, or would tolerate her son posting racist rants. Where's the loyalty in that?
	Quitting is the loyal thing for Rachel Noerdlinger to do.
	But since that's not on the agenda, the mayor should man up and can her. Next he's got to listen to his constituents and stop giving the unelected Al Sharpton so much power. Every time they're together it ends badly. De B's proclamation that the more he's criticized the more he wants to hang with Al is noble, but it's also juvenile.
	As my Italian ancestors say, "Fish stinks from the top," and Bill's got to dump the fish rotting on his head.
	This exclusionary perception is a damned shame because the mayor's agenda — affordable housing, living wage, pre-K, creating entry level jobs — is all about the low income and the middle class but the progress is lost in the drama.
	He wants to make it possible for all city workers (except Rachel Noerdlinger!) who must live in this now-unaffordable city, to live here comfortably. He wants new cops, uniformed service people, new grads and others who want to live in this city, to be able to afford that. They voted for Bill D, so why are they feeling excluded now?
	If he attends a Baptist church on Sundays, he should also attend a synagogue one Friday night. Instead of meeting with cardinals, he should meet with parish priests to find out what the hell is really going on with their flocks.
	And he's gotta stop ducking the press! Who does this? Disgraced celebrities, that's who. The press wasn't the enemy until he decided we were.
	If we are judged by the company we keep, our mayor should find a new frigging company. One with benefits.
	Oh hell, I was never good at being married anyway.
	JOEL'S A REAL PIANO MOVER
	Billy Joel just sold a 15th-floor apartment at 128 Central Park South for $775,000. How much? Yes, $775,000. Wait a minute! No apartment on that block has gone for that price since Eisenhower was in office. Is it really a parking spot? No, it's a one-bedroom! Meantime, Joel's parent's old Levitt house in Hicksville is probably worth more than that now.
	EBOLA'D OVER BY EXCUSE
	NBC News chief medical editor Dr. Nancy Snyderman, whose cameraman has Ebola, apologized for going to a New Jersey restaurant while under a voluntary medical quarantine.
	Not in a New Jersey restaurant, mind you, but to a New Jersey restaurant. Snyderman stayed in the car, while her friend went in for soup.
	Rosie O'Donnell called Snyderman's apology "crappy" and every other know-it-all weighed in on the horror of it all. Excuse me, but Snyderman stayed in the car, didn't go shaking hands and sneezing into everyone's soup nor willingly exposed her own children to the deadly disease like Thomas Duncan.
	Meantime, sob sisters are crying for Duncan's family, who repeatedly violated quarantine, were handed a four-bedroom home, and now want to sue the Dallas hospital for malpractice.
	CLOONEY TUNES
	In case you missed the fact that she bagged George, it took Amal Alamuddin about 15 seconds to have her name changed to Amal Clooney on her law firm's website before heading to Athens to work on the return of the Parthenon Marbles. Yes, she's lost her marbles and Mrs. Human Rights is a now a Clooney loony.
	WHAT SAY YOU, SAYREVILLE?
	Parents in Sayreville, N.J., are shocked that football hazing in the locker room included the rape of four freshmen players by teammates possibly with broomsticks. Really? Does this repulsive Sayreville mom sound shocked? "No one was hurt," she reasoned. "No one died. I don't understand why they're being punished." You don't understand? It's clear. Disgusting humanoid parents who think like that produce disgusting, violent, sexually deviant sons.
	These violated boys are Abner Louima for the 2000s. New era, same violence, another level of ignorance.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Is purple the new black? No, it's the new taupe. As Confidenti@l reported, Yahoo makeup  style experts Bobbi Brown and Joe Zee are seeing red over all that purple on Yahoo. Let's face it, purple is just so spring 2013. ... Brad Pitt says he loves guns and got his first one in kindergarten. If you were married to a woman who once wore a vial of blood around her neck, you'd feel safer with an arsenal around too. ... Another former child star another OD. Autopsy results show that Skye McCole Bartusiak's death included a refrigerant-soaked rag over her face. Despite the appalling numbers, parents still would kill to produce a child star, and too often they do on both counts. ... Kate Mara and Shia LaBeouf are maybe a couple. Perfect! She played a nut job in "American Horror Story," and he is one in real life. Existentially speaking, that is.