
	If Don Draper were alive he'd kill himself.
	Weird, disheveled and just plain creepy guys have taken over TV commercials, and it feels like we've all invited a bunch of stalkers home for a beer.
	Worse, this bizarre concept of selling products using dirty-looking, banged-up pitchmen who are oddly reminiscent of every scary guy in every urban myth about killers with hooks...is working!
	So wait — these are representative of the 18-54-year-old males that advertising loves? Maybe if you wanted to sell car or travel insurance to men who haven't left their mothers' basements since "Lost" went off the air, fine, but aside from that? Not so sure.
	Scariest is Matthew McConaughey pitching Lincoln in full "True Detective" mode. The ad is so bizarre that it spawned a parody on SNL and a better one online by Corey Rutledge on The Shorts Show.
	In the ad, McConaughey sounds like a serial killer reciting Haiku to the 14-year-old he's got tied up in the back seat of the car he just stole.
	Then there's classic needs-a-shave-real-bad Trivago Guy of the disheveled gray shirt and falling-off pants who looks like he left his belt in a flophouse. Would you stay in a hotel that guy recommended? It's like taking travel tips from Norman Bates.
	Trivago Guy is no Brad Pitt. Well, maybe he is. Pitt was the one who started it all by showing up in a Chanel #5 ad in a disheveled shirt and giving that same bizarro blank delivery. Maybe Pitt finally reached that coveted, untapped market of basement-dwelling serial killers.
	
	What about Truecar.com creep? The site got nailed for implying that women couldn't buy a car without a man, so they got the world's dullest, roundest man to pitch for them. Not only is it like being stuck with your cousin Larry discoursing on forensic accounting, but he then drives away in a car that looks like he lifted it from ConEd. Perfect unobtrusive kidnapping vehicle.
	And who can forget the freak pitching NFL Thursday night football in a too-short Hillary pantsuit and giant Miley foam finger? So when he isn't shooting the neighbor's household pets from his window, he's watching football?
	Remember the first advertising oddball — George Zimmer, the Men's Warehouse guy who looked like he had a live farm animal on his head? They fired him. Who's pitching for them now? Zimmer's lost twin Joseph Abboud!
	Truth be told, the only good-looking, put-together males left pitching on TV are selling Viagra and they look like they're the only ones who don't need it.
	
	
	YOU MAY NOW KISS FAMILY MEMBER
	Now that it's legal for half-uncles to marry their nieces in New York, think what a hit the billion-dollar wedding reception industry will take, but what a boon for all incest-loving families.
	For one thing, you only need to invite half the relatives. You can get a smaller church since the bride's side is the groom's side, and the cocktail hour will now only need half the number of pigs-in-the-blanket.
	The decision was rendered by a judge in Albany, home to the New York State Legislature, whose members have been accused of everything but marrying their relatives.
	
	The couple's marriage (she wanted citizenship) has cleared the way for freakish incestuous pairings. Incest as a basis for U.S. citizenship? Democracy has a built-in self-destruct button.
	DIRTY OLD MAN SEEKS LITHE YOUNG THINGS
	Talk about bad timing. On the same day that 17-year-old twins were indicted for roping and robbing an 85-year-old randy dandy sugar daddy they'd found on seekingarrangement.com, the site heralded their announcement of the top 30 sugar daddy cities in the country. Oops.
	While NYC ranks number one and two for billionaires and millionaires, it ranks only 29 on the sugar daddy scale. No wonder the teen terrors settled on Paul Aronson. Must be a limited number of hot, young, desperately lonely bazillions here.
	Shalaine and Shaina Foster, which sounds like a country singing group, tied him to a coffee table for 20 hours — a skill set not seen since Monty Python's Piranha brothers — and went out shopping.
	One sister's defense lawyer charged that Aronson had — yes! — impure expectations. You think?
	
	SLEEPING WITH THE FRENEMY
	What's wrong with this picture?
	A new study found that men who sleep with 20 or more women have a 28% lower chance of getting prostate cancer. Why? Because the more times a man ejaculates, the more he rids himself of carcinogens in his semen. Why this requires a woman, they don't say.
	As luck would have it, the more sexual partners a woman has the more chance she has of catching the HPV virus which can lead to cervical cancer.
	
	OH, FOR THE LOVE OF CHRIST(IE)!
	For Chris Christie Ebola is not a scourge of God, but a gift from God.
	Hey, it's strong enough to kill off a tunnel scandal, isn't it? Better, still, Ebola has allowed this bully-with-a-bully-pulpit limitless national exposure as the state's tough guy.
	What made heroic nurse Kaci Hickox think she could land in his state after risking her life treating Ebola patients?
	EMBRACING HIS ANIMAL INSTINCTS
	A British man was arrested after being caught with an "extreme porn" video of a woman having sex with a tiger. But it was really just a man in a tiger suit. Having sex with a tiger could not end well in any case, but watching sex between a woman and a man in a tiger costume is not beastiality, just beastly stupid.