
	Harming children is the worst crime a human can commit. They are tiny, you are big. They are helpless, you are powerful. There is no forgiveness, no excuse.
	Unless you are an NFL star, that is. Then, even if you are a 220-pound man whose job it is to slam other 220-pound men into the ground, it's OK. If you have beaten two helpless 4-year olds, one locked in his seat belt, another with a tree switch it's called a "spanking."
	If you are Adrian Peterson, for example, your fans will bring tree branches to the stadium to cheer you on; women will wear your jerseys to show solidarity with — what? — a child-abusing monster?
	Other ball players will cluelessly defend you. NBA Hall of Famer Charles Barkley will tell CBS' "The NFL Today" that it's just normal Southern black parenting. He'll say, "We called it 'spanking' or 'whipping' our kids."
	Whipping, yes, spanking no. A "spanking" is a swat on the backside, not a hit to the face when a tot is trapped helplessly in his car seat or an assault with a tree branch. A spanking doesn't cause wounds or require medical attention.
	That is child abuse, but because children have no access to protection other than from those charged with protecting them, it often goes unreported. In spousal abuse cases, women can call 911 and press charges. Babies can't do that.
	But when it's the rich and famous and powerful men doing the beating, good luck with anyone filing anything.
	It took a doctor to call the cops on Peterson, and yet it took more than a year for one of the beatings to even become public — and that wasn't until after the Ray Rice case exploded.
	This is the United States, where kids are supposed to have rights, but these kids had about as many rights as women captured by ISIS.
	Peterson credited his success in life to the whoopings he got as a kid from his parents. He was actually crediting, not even blaming, the abuse he endured as a child to the abuse he now inflicts on his own children. How stupid is that?
	We don't know all the actions the boys' mothers took privately, but they could have been more diligent in exposing publicly what the father did to the vulnerable kids. On Monday, the NFL appointed three women to work with the league on domestic violence issues. Please. That move smacks of such PR scandal control that it sounds louder than the smacks Peterson inflicts on 4-year olds.
	WRONG-O 'DJANGO' WHINER
	The claim by "Django Unchained" actress Daniele Watts and dopey celebrity chef boyfriend Cheffy Be*Live that she was mistaken for a prostitute, and was put in handcuffs in Studio City because she was a black woman making out with a white man, is like a giant soufflé — full of hot air.
	Everyone bought it, hook, line and stinker. Ooops.
	On audio obtained by TMZ, however, the officer, (the lost twin of Erik Estrada on "CHiPs"?), calmly tells them he's checking a complaint about a couple performing a lewd act in a car. And according to witnesses, they were — with the car door open, yet.
	The cop is reasonable; she isn't. Watts acts like a big Hollywood brat, cursing, calling her dad, claiming racism and screaming, "I have a publicist!" And an anger issue.
	FYI: Why have public sex in Studio City? It's known for having more paparazzi than residents. Just asking . . .
	URBAN OUTLANDISH
	Urban Outfitters issued an apology of sorts after offering "vintage" Kent State sweatshirts that appear to be spattered with blood. For a mere $129, patrons could pretend to be spattered with the gore of the four students killed and nine wounded by National Guard bullets in 1970.
	Disgracefully, the company claimed the red stains were just manufacturing flaws. Right. Flaws so intense that they sold the gruesome sweatshirts for more than a hundred bucks?
	What next? College T-shirts celebrating last year's 27 college shootings? Sandy Hook play sets? Unconscious? No. Unconscionable.
	PARADE LOW ON DRAMA
	We are not "Jersey Shore," "The Sopranos," "The Real Housewives of New Jersey" or any other TV show that portrays Italian-Americans as violent, uneducated slobs and criminals.
	What we are — as demonstrated on Saturday by Gov. Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio at the procession of the Feast of San Gennaro in Little Italy — are leaders and educators, artists, clerics, writers, scientists, computer innovators, historians, hardworking Americans from every walk of life who are proud of our heritage.
	On Saturday, for the first time in history, the Italian-American governor and mayor were co-grand marshals of the San Gennaro parade (Rudy Giuliani demonized the feast) as hundreds of thousands showed up to cheer them on, walk with them and visit the churches, and enjoy the treats from the vendors and restaurants. But it got little media attention. That would have required an ugly incident in order to feed the bias machine.
	KANYE'S NO-SIT ATTITUDE
	Kanye West and his shamelessly self-promoting wife are now defending his refusal in Australia to continue his show until everyone in the audience, including a fan in a wheelchair, stood up. It took him a while to realize apparently, that although he calls himself Yeezus, he can't make the lame walk — or stand to shout his praises.
	EXPRESS LINES
	No evidence exists that Hillary Clinton loyalists "scrubbed" Benghazi evidence to cover up anything that made her look bad. Impossible. Clinton coverups are sloppier than that . . . If you thought Ralph Lauren's Hitler Youth-looking Olympics uniforms with Polo patches were a disaster, take a gander at the Colombia women's cycling outfits. Inexplicably, the fashion-tragic uniforms are flesh-colored, making them look naked in the nethers and hilarious in hindsight.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com
	Follow @lindastasi