
	You can't put a creche or a menorah in a public space but you can put anti-Islamic ads in the subway? You bet.
	That's because a court has just determined that the MTA was denying hate-mongering Pamela Geller's free speech rights (for which she's paying about $100,000) by refusing to accept her anti-Islamic ads.
	We are no longer a nation under God, but a nation under political correctness.
	This travesty began in 1978 when the Supreme Court determined that any religious displays on municipal properties must be tempered with a variety of secular symbols so as not to offend or exclude any other group.
	In other words, want a creche or a menorah in the public square? Then you better add a bunch of Santas, elves and for good measure some Disney characters.
	Yet, if you want to declare hatred in public spaces against a religion that is not currently in favor with the P.C. crowd? Go to court and get your way.
	Blogger Pamela Geller's ads, featuring photos of James Foley at his beheading and even a photo of Hitler thrown in for good measure, are, she maintains, "an educational campaign."
	How is a campaign against any religion educational? Suppose someone now decides to buy ad space against Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism or Mormonism? Would that be OK? By this ruling, yes.
	Worse, ironically, these ads hit just as a bistate plan for beefed up protection at MTA and Port Authortity sites was being announced. And now for sure they will need it.
	In fairness, the MTA tried to fight the hateful, bigoted ads on the basis that they violated its policy against using demeaning language but, in 2012, Judge Paul Engleman ruled against them.
	The MTA then attempted to block the ads by revising their standards to ban advertising that could be harmful to the morale of MTA employees, could incite or provoke violence, or even disrupt orderly transit.
	Ultimately, however, Geller's hate-filled rants were determined by the MTA and CBS Outdoor Advertising to be acceptable. Apparently, they believe these ads in the work environment won't be harmful to the morale of their employees.
	The MTA did however, manage on Friday to reject one bus ad from another anti-Islamic group, American Freedom Defense Initiative. The MTA objected to the phrase "Killing Jews," declaring it to be an Islamic imperative.
	Geller says her ads, though, are realistic because "Jew hatred is in the Koran."
	Has she ever actually read the Bible?
	We don't go around killing nonbelievers, nor kill people who deliberately wear ripped clothing. The whole Meatpacking District would close down in a day if that were carried out.
	Praise gods and pass the ammunition.
	NATIONAL FRAUD LEAGUE
	All the crisis intervention PR in the world can't fix the NFL's mess.
	Every single bit of pre-press conference media training didn't make Roger Goodell look any more sincere on Friday than he did 10 days earlier when he last addressed the issue.
	Every rehearsed breath of his fake mea culpa mantra of "We didn't get this right" won't make it right. Putting a Band-Aid on an amputation won't stop a hemorrhage.
	Whether Goodell thinks the rampant abuse in the NFL should be a matter for the police to decide is irrelevant. The league has a code of conduct that starts with a rule against domestic violence. Period.
	The guy who says, "Ignorance is not an excuse," came across as the village idiot living in a village full of fools and felons.
	Only an idiot would neglect to apologize to the victims.
	NEW SERIES POURS OUT HOT CUP OF TÉA
	Secretary of State Téa Leoni (right), who plays a Hillary Clinton-type secretary of state on "Madam Secretary" told Parade magazine that she still thinks highly of her ex-husband, David Duchovny.
	Duchovny, star of the sex-soaked "Californication," who is himself an admitted sex addict who even did a stint in sex-addict camp, clearly has the same issues as Hillary's husband, Bill. Art imitating life? Téa imitating Hillary, or maybe Leoni was just born to the role.
	BOO-HOO BOO BOO
	After dropping 100 pounds, it looks like Honey Boo Boo's mama, Mama June, is dropping a couple hundred more: her husband.
	Mama don't need no Sugar no more, and so announced her split from hubby Sugar Bear, just four months after their commitment ceremony.
	Turns out that Bear, who describes himself as a hunter, went hunting for other ladies on dating sites, as though he were just any old redneck looking for love and not a world-famous lonely redneck.
	In reality, nothing wrecks a marriage like reality TV and vice versa.
	Take prosthetic-leg-tossing lawyer, the, ah, booted "Real Housewife" Aviva Drescher, who said she was only using reality TV to promote prosthetics awareness and would never embarrass herself. Right. Now she and her husband are going on "Marriage Boot Camp," where shame goes to die.
	STEALING HOME
	What are we missing here? Ron Washington, former Texas Rangers manager, announced that the reason he abruptly quit his position is because he cheated on his wife. What? You can do that and remain President of the United States but not remain a baseball manager? If that craziness were true, there wouldn't be three players left!
	CYCLE JERKS
	When did New York City become the demented love child of Beijing and Denver?
	If God had meant us to ride bikes he wouldn't have invented cars.
	In addition to the horrible accidents that crazed speeding bikers (who think bike lanes are only for food-delivery guys) have caused — the latest being tragic Jill Tarlov, who was run down by Jason Marshall last week bikers have made crossing the streets, making left-hand turns and stepping off the curb hazardous.
	Bring on the blizzards to get these blockheads off their bikes.
	LSTASI@NYDAILYNEWS.COM / TWITTER @LINDASTASI