
	Do money and power make even the ugliest dirty old men so delusional they believe that women want what they've got? Apparently so. In reality, these slobs are merely an extension of Tom Wolfe's masters of the universe theory, except they're more like masturbators of the universe.
	Take the allegation against 70-year-old serial womanizer Sanford Rubenstein. The sleazer geezer allegedly raped a drunken woman after Al Sharpton's glitzy birthday bash. Why a grown woman would go to this weirdo's apartment after a party is a whole other question, but one for another day.
	Rubenstein is allegedly just the latest in a long line of powerful men who refuse to believe that women and, in some cases, underage girls and boys — are not after what they're pushing — forcefully and always illegally.
	Just Tuesday, it was revealed that Stephen Collins from "7th Heaven," who now looks like he has done some hard time, allegedly admitted on an audio tape to abusing an underage girl and exposing himself to two other kids! He was investigated once before but the statute ran out, unfortunately, or these kids could have been saved.
	There's also former Gov. Idiot Spitzer, who resigned in disgrace after he hired hookers but still had the hubris later to run for city controller. The pervert got caught cashing big checks to pay his hookers but still thought he should handle the biggest municipal budget in the country. Arrogance, sure. Delusion, definitely.
	And then there was the bizarrely perverse Anthony Weiner with his infamous tweets, retweets and then even more bizarre, shameless recidivist tweets.
	What about billionaire philanthropist Jeffrey Epstein, who likes underage girls on the side? He spent 13 months in the can for soliciting an underage prostitute.
	The most repulsive of all powerful sex beasts of late, however, is Penn State football coach Jerry Sandusky, who was convicted of 45 counts of sex crimes against children, all of whom were young boys.
	Meantime, ever notice how you never hear about rich, powerful female sexual predators? OK, there aren't that many billionaire powerhouse women, but still. You never read that Hillary Clinton got caught exposing herself, that Nancy Pelosi tweeted out pix of her nethers, or that Sarah Palin came on to say, Ted Cruz. Wait, even a hooker wouldn't come on to Cruz.
	Rich and powerful men still believe Henry Kissinger's sexist assertion that power is an aphrodisiac, while women prefer The Beatles' adage that money can't buy you love. Money, can however, buy you a good attorney, even if you already are one.
	RAND PAUL NEEDS EYE TEST
	Would you let an ophthalmologist diagnose your heart condition? No? Then why in hell would you listen to perennial presidential candidate/self-certified ophthalmologist-turned-fearmonger Sen. Rand Paul on Ebola?
	He actually said, "Could we have a worldwide pandemic? The Spanish flu in 1918 killed 21 million people, the plague in the 14th century killed 25 million people; I'm not saying that's going to happen, I don't know what's going to happen."
	No wonder Paul was only certified through the now-defunct National Ophthalmology Board, a medical board he founded himself. Or maybe no one else wanted to certify someone who can only look backwards.
	The Republican senator from Kentucky apparently discounts the modern world and our ability to fight disease and disseminate information. What will he propose next? Another round of the Crusades?
	UNHOLY WAR AGAINST MUSLIMS
	What's wrong with this picture? Last week, Ben Affleck, Bill Maher and Sam Harris brawled on "Real Time," with Affleck taking offense to Maher saying Islam is "like the Mafia because it will f---ing kill you," and Harris adding, "Islam is the mother lode of bad ideas." This caused Affleck to react furiously, calling their remarks "gross and racist." Worth noting that none of the three men is Muslim and two are anti-religion.
	WRITES MAKE WRONGS
	Leon Panetta, former CIA director and secretary of defense, joins President Obama's growing list of top brass to turn turncoat and write.
	Like Hillary Clinton and Robert Gates before him, Panetta loves to chew the fat and criticize the President for his failures. His new tome, which he's pushing as hard as a $3 hot dog vendor, scorches Obama for pulling out of Iraq too soon and by not moving on Syria sooner.
	Panetta, a Clinton loyalist and Bill's chief of staff, should have spent more ink on his own CIA disasters, such as the one that resulted in the loss of seven CIA agents, or the speech he gave that was attended by Hollywood types in which he disclosed the top-secret name of the SEAL unit that took out Osama Bin Laden.
	GONE (GIRL) AND FORGOTTEN
	Amid all the insane hype over the book and now the movie, hasn't anyone noticed that there are gaps in the "Gone Girl" movie so big you can see Russia?
	And as for "Blurred Lines" sensation Emily Ratajkowski, who everyone is touting as the real star of that movie?
	Her sensational boobs are the real stars of the
	movie, like they were in the video. In this flick, she shows 'em, has sex with Ben Affleck and then puts on a nun-on-the-run outfit. Seriously?
	THE STRAIGHT TRUTH ON GAY RIGHTS
	With the Supreme Court nonruling on Monday, 60% of states have or will allow same-sex marriage. It's about damned time. As my friend Garland likes to say, "Now, we gay guys are allowed the two things that straight men avoid: the Army and marriage!"
	lstasi@nydailynews.com / @lindastasi