
	Dear President Obama,
	I can't tell you how excited I was to read the Rev. Al Sharpton's declaration that he's helping you pick a replacement for Attorney General Eric Holder, the most important law enforcement position in the U.S.
	I mean, I think that's what Al meant when he announced that he is "engaged in immediate conversations with the White House on deliberations over a successor whom we hope will continue in the general direction of Attorney General Holder."
	Anyway, the great thing is that with Al, you (and all of us) get not just a brilliant minister of the poor (especially after they deal with him) and excellent alleged ex-drug-money launderer, but you get his whole National Action Network (whatever that actually is) to boot!
	And, Mr. President, aside from Al's own intimate knowledge of the law (all cops are all racists!), his choice of staff shows his brilliance.
	There is his former media strategist Rachel Noerdlinger, who is now the chief of staff for New York City's First Lady, Chirlaine McCray! OK, so what if Noerdlinger's boyfriend, Hassaun McFarlan, is a convicted killer, a cop hater ("...pigs f---ing with me ...") who has been busted a few times since getting out of the can by racist cops for driving with a suspended license and walking around Harlem smoking weed? Those busts were clearly just another example of "pigs f---ing with him."
	Thing is Hassaun is so damned hot that the chief of staff herself was busted in 2010 for punching a woman half her age when she found her in Hassaun's apartment.
	And really, it can happen to anyone. Or anyone with a killer boyfriend, that is.
	I am equally excited to tell you — confidentially of course — that I did get a peek at Rev. Al's AG wish list and it's killer, too.
	I do hope you'll take a minute to review it before you make a final decision. Every candidate, all former or alleged associates (no, not like that!), is better than the next! I don't envy you.
	From Al's activist past, there's Tawana Brawley. I hear she could use the work.
	From his law enforcement, er, informant, days, there's Benny Eggs, Chin, Fritzy, Corky and Baldy Dom. (OK, some are dead, but since when has that stopped him?)
	From politics, there's Republican dirty trickster Roger Stone, who allegedly bankrolled and orchestrated Sharpton's disastrous presidential campaign in order to lure moderate Democrats to the Republican side.
	So what if there isn't a lawyer in the bunch? There is no law saying that the highest-ranking law enforcement official in the country has to be a lawyer.
	Actually, in that case, maybe, just maybe, Mr. President, you would consider nominating the Rev. Al himself and skip the formalities.
	IT'S FEAR OF FLYING WITH SLOBS
	If airlines can get belligerent passengers arrested, and can charge double for fatties to fly, why can't they turn away passengers who dress like they've just come from a condemned beach?
	Shouldn't there be some kind of FAA regulation that requires a minimum amount of clothing, especially on the loud, the morbidly obese and the excessively annoying?
	Can't they ban slobs with giant B.O., or cologne overload?
	How about a damned refund if we're seated next to a sweaty, hairy loser in a tank top?
	Forget the paper headrests, we need paper toilet seat covers on those seats!
	Airline honchos take note: There is nothing more nerve-racking than being trapped in a speeding, aluminum tube at 35,000 feet while stuck next to somebody who looks — and stinks — like they've given up on life.
	Dress like a human or ride in a cattle car.
	ROTTEN APPLES
	If ever a country deserved to be swamped with the new black market iPhones it's China, land of pagodas and knock-off malls. Warning: Worse than even the new phones is the new iOS 8 upgrade. Pages no longer syncs automatically across all devices.
	I'm midway through writing a sequel to my novel, "The Sixth Station," and it's like I really am back in the time of Jesus it's so primitive. An Apple Support tech said, "Well you shouldn't have downloaded iCloud Drive." Exactly. It's driving me right back to Microsoft. Check out this astounding video: http://youtu.be/Ef_BznBwktw
	BY GEORGE, HE DID IT
	Just when we were so concerned about overpopulation, George Clooney gets married. Millions of women, and probably as many men, will be dying of heartbreak this weekend. And on that note, I bid you all a fond farewell. OK, not so fond, I'm just as pissed as you are.
	EXPRESS LINES
	UNfit leaders: The annual UN Summit is an event in which wealthy world-class windbags, war mongers and black-marketeering world leaders tie up traffic with polluting motorcades in order to talk about poverty, climate change, and peace ... Grande slam: How much of a loser can you be if your life coach quits? Ariana Grande's life coach (definition: a life coach is someone deeply in need of a life coach) quit over her diva behavior. Fast track to Mischa Barton land? ... Fashionably very late: Kim Kardashian got shoved by a prankster at a Paris fashion show. She was so horrified her face reportedly almost moved. Then she and Kanye got booed when they arrived at the Lanvin show 40 minutes late. The producers should have been booed for holding up the show for these showboating showoffs.
	BLAZ'S GROUNDHOG DAY OF THE DEAD
	What happened to standing around waiting for a groundhog to come out of its hole? Not good enough. Everything has to be an event.
	And so for decades, mayors have been reluctant, and ridiculous, participants in an idiot ritual in which they must pick up the feral animals like they're cute housepets.
	Bloomy got bitten and Blaz dropped it, apparently causing the groundhog to drop dead of its injuries. Like the movie, this endlessly repeated trick never ends well. I mean, who picks up woodchucks in real life? Exactly.
	LSTASI@NYDAILYNEWS.COM / TWITTER @LINDASTASI