
	I want to be Joan Rivers when I die. No, really I do.
	I want 1,000 of my nearest and dearest, (out of the millions who are mourning) to show up.
	I want the invited thousand to stop and get their names checked off a list by good-looking people with clipboards. And I want all mourners in full hair and makeup.
	I want everyone who's invited to be so well dressed that if Joan Rivers were alive she'd be at a loss for jokes about squeezing a size 12 body into a size zero rubber dress.
	And then I want them — and everyone around the world, in fact — to miss me every second of every day, because the planet will be a lot more morose and a lot less funny without me in it.
	I want the NYC Gay Men's Choir to send me out with, well not show tunes, although "There's Nothing Like a Dame" is  appropriate for every occasion.
	I want Howard Stern to talk about my vagina, but mostly I want Hugh Jackman to belt out a song with so much feeling that people will swear that he was familiar with my "down belows" — as my mother would say — because we'd secretly slept together. Please.
	I want my best friends like Cindy Adams and Deborah Norville and Margie Stern to get up and make everyone howl with laughter at my antics.
	I want my daughter to read a letter she wrote to me that is hilarious, complaining and wonderful.
	I want Preston Bailey to cover the whole altar in thousands upon thousands of perfect white orchids in overflowing baskets, and because too much is never enough, to then cover the wall behind the podium with uncountable dozens more.
	I want the Emerald Society to play "Amazing Grace," while standing on the altar but then I want them to march out to, maybe not "New York, New York," but the Kongo's "Come With Me Now."
	My friends should all have had great work done so that when they are standing outside afterwards crying, their wrinkle-free faces actually move.
	Mostly I want the world to have a hole in its heart because I'm not there anymore.
	In case you haven't guessed, I'm talking about the spectacularly appropriately wonderful funeral service Sunday for my friend, Joan Rivers, of which I was one of the very lucky few whose presence had been requested.
	The funeral, at the beautiful Temple Emanu-El, was everything that Joan really wanted (her jokes about it aside), and anything a mother could wish her daughter would do for her.
	Every minute of the service was perfect, warm, touching, often slap-your-knee hilarious, and was never as she'd joked, over the top or so filled with A-listers that the importance of the occasion was outshone by idiots posing on a red carpet.
	It was a beautiful funeral service attended by her family and friends, some of whom are just famous. But most weren't.
	It never occurred to me that I'd make the cut — like I joked the other day, I thought Joan liked me, not loved me— and so I was shocked when I got the invitation Saturday morning.
	I stopped crying long enough to start all over again. I responded by saying "I am honored to be included," and cried even more when I got the response from Joan's assistant, Graham Reed.
	It read: "She adored you."
	Not as much as I adored her. Well, me and about 300 million others.
	What a memorable memorial it was. Who but Joan would put the fun in funeral? Smooth sailing, my friend.
	Oh, and, Joan? I want to be you when I die.
	On a mobile device? Click here to watch video.