
	Did alimony kill Robin Williams?
	At least in part it sure did. Paying out over $30 million to ex-wives who were allowed to attach themselves to Williams' bank account like comatose patients on feeding tubes would be enough to make Gandhi angry and depressed.
	While states are finally, gradually catching up to the modern age in terms of alimony (now they call it "maintenance" — as in "high maintenance") the practice of men paying women because they once were married is not just primitive but, yes, sexist.
	Yeah, go ahead, call me anti-feminist, call me whatever you want, but the truth is alimony (which is different from child support and fair distribution of assets acquired during the marriage) doesn't mean the non-working spouse is entitled to live as high as the Kardashians. It's that concept that is fundamentally anti-feminist.
	No, I'm not talking out of my head. I'm talking as a formerly divorced, unemployed woman who didn't ask for alimony, just a fair amount of child support for our then-2-year-old daughter, which never happened anyway.
	And thank God for it. Had I been "maintained," I would never have found my own way in the world. I wouldn't have written books at night as a side-job, I would never have fought against sexism to be given decent assignments, and my daughter would have had a "maintained" mother as opposed to an ambitious one as an example.
	Yes, it was scary as hell most of the time. But hell, if a man could support a family, why couldn't I?
	"Maintenance" is treading water, which makes moving forward impossible.
	And even though women now work as a matter of course, according to 2010 Census records, 97 percent of the 400,000 people receiving spousal support are women.
	Of course, money woes weren't all that brought on Williams' suicide. Depression in his case was a life-long battle, and Parkinson's exacerbated it.
	We all have situational depression from time to time, and do eventually get out of it. Chronic depression is a whole other beast.
	One of my best friends, Dr. Jane Falkenstein, is a physician who was diagnosed with Parkinson's ten years ago.
	"I've never tended towards depression," she said, "so I didn't become unduly depressed. Although the diagnosis itself is depressing because you know what's coming. When patients sit in a waiting room, they see their future."
	Despite all the love in his present, all Williams saw was what the past had cost him and what the future would bring. As he once said, "Divorce is expensive. I used to joke they were going to call it 'all the money,' but they changed it to 'alimony.' It's ripping your heart out through your wallet."
	'CHICKS' ARE HOT
	If you've been looking for 26 ways to slim your thighs so you can put to use the 472 ways that your favorite women's mag taught you to please your man, meet the Indie Chicks, coming to a neighborhood near you on Monday.
	Indie Chicks will be marching around New York with typical negative cover lines from women's mags pinned to their clothes, looking to drum up reader support, not to mention financial support, on Indiegogo.com.
	How bad do mags make women feel? Even Beyoncé and Mariah Carey have been Photoshopped into nutty Barbie proportions recently.
	Yes, they too have the cover lines affliction! Don't know about you, but I'd give up the chance to lose those last nasty 10 pounds in five short days to look like either of them. Oh wait. That sounds like a bad cover line.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Fat Chance: Burger King is mostly discontinuing their Satisfries after less than a year. Too bad. The fries with 40% less fat and 30% fewer calories were loved by tens of customers ... Ray of blight: Showtime's "Ray Donovan" is to the second decade of the 2000s what "The Sopranos" was to the first. Brilliant, funny, scary — and that's just Jon Voight ... AGT Is GR8: ICYMI "America's Got Talent" proves America is great. Finalists "Sons of Serendip" are like listening to heaven, and Christian Stoinev is like watching an earthling defying gravity.
	'AL' BAD FOR GORE, JAZEERA
	Al Gore, who was born without the gene for shame, is actually suing Al Jazeera America for not making good on $65 million of the $500 million purchase price for Gore's Current TV.
	Says one former top level employee, "The ratings are even lower than they were on Current. It's not just employees who are p---ed off - so are many of the vendors who are waiting weeks if not months to get paid."
	No one from Current TV who is now at Al Jazeera is shedding any tears for Mr. Gore (left).
	Let's not forget, the man who fancies himself the environment's best friend sold "his baby" for petrol dollars to a country that Rep. Brad Sherman (D-Calif.) has accused of funding Hamas.
	Karma's turning out to be a b---- for both Als.
	FINALLY, IT'S KIM'S DAY
	Enough about me, let's talk about me: In discussing with Andy Cohen the fact that her brother Rob ditched her wedding, Kim Kardashian said, "I just thought, you know what, this is my day. I'm not even going to worry about it." Isn't it always her day? No. Plans are in the works for it not to be her day in 2085.
	SHE'S EXTRA CHEESY
	What toppings did you want on that pizza, lady? Texas mom Miranda Sowers is suing a pizza place after they kicked her out for changing her baby's diaper at the table. Why did she do such a disgusting, uncivilized thing? Because they didn't have a changing table in the bathroom, that's why. Clearly she buys the old adage, "her s--- don't stink," but never heard the one about "you don't poop where you eat."
	LSTASI@NYDAILYNEWS.COM / TWITTER @LINDASTASI