
	The Riches of Robin Williams.
	The irony isn't lost, but oddly it's never heeded.
	The more gifted, famous, rich, and lauded people become, the more tortured they seem to be.
	And so Robin Williams joins the endless list of anguished, yet celebrated, rich, modern geniuses who abused drugs and alcohol, suffered terribly and often ended badly. The difference is, unlike so many celebrity drunks, Robin Williams was never known to be mean or selfish, rotten or self-centered.
	Brando, Berlin, Bruce. Winehouse, Wilde, Warhol. Callas, Cash, Heath Ledger. Judy Garland, Marilyn Monroe, Philip Seymour Hoffman. Janis Joplin, Jim Morrison, Kurt Cobain. Williams was even with John Belushi on the day he OD'd.
	They all were miserable amid the glamour, and too often too many of them became abusive in their agony. But it's more difficult to find those kinds of stories about Williams. Yes, he said his marriages ended badly because of his cheating and substance abuse, but he owned up to it.
	But for the most part, it was that honesty and his kindness that set Robin Williams apart from most of the other tortured artists who became famous but never became happy. Seems nobody much talked trash about Williams.
	Maybe it was because he was a deep, genuinely nice guy, who was taken down by substance abuse, bipolar disorder and depression in a town built on shallownjiess and the fleeting beauty of the famous who think of selfies as a public service.
	A mutual friend once told me that Williams, the best friend of Christopher Reeve since they'd roomed together at Juilliard, not just offered but did pay some of the extensive medical bills and tremendous personal expenses that the Reeve family endured over the years.
	He always denied it, admitting only that he'd bought a van and generator for his friend, telling The Daily Mirror that, "It was really frightening because where Chris and his family live in Connecticut the winters are very harsh. One night the generator they had for Chris crapped out, so there was Chris' wife Dana outside in the middle of the night trying to hand-crank the thing. Now Chris has his own income because of his book, his record and various other sources so he's financially independent and pays his own bills."
	Whether the good rumor I'd heard was a true rumor I don't know, but how many rich, drug-addled comics and actors do you know would deny their generosity just to insure that a friend's dignity remained intact?
	In 2012, the prank site Global Associated News hoaxed that Williams was dead. Hard to believe that was supposed to be funny. Harder to believe that now it's true.
	
	THE SHALLOWNESS OF THE KARDASHIANS
	There's Robin Williams and then there are the Kardashians.
	This week, the Kardashians put themselves front and center for no reason again when the world's worst mother, Kim shared her mother, Mary Jo's Mary Jane (medical marijuana) on their unreality show. Isn't it illegal to use someone else's medical marijuana?
	Then giving new lack of depth to "shallow," useless daughter Kendall reportedly left a New York City restaurant without imagining that a semi-Kardashian would ever have to pay a check. Hey, this is New York, not L.A., where people don't care about useless reality show celebrities.
	
	Blaine Morris, the hardworking actress-turned-server, ran after her down the street to get the money, at which point, the talentless brat threw the money at her.
	When does "what goes around comes around" come around exactly?
	IRAQ IS A WRECK
	If George W. Bush hadn't been afraid not to listen to Dick Cheney, whose former company reaped $39.5 billion from the Iraq war, we would never have invaded Iraq.
	Yes, Saddam Hussein was a ruthless dictator and murderer, but no, he didn't cause 9/11 and yes, he somehow kept a tribalistic country relatively stable and raised the literacy rate to from 30% to 70%.
	He was a bad man who was good for stability.
	Since the invasion, Iraq has slowly reverted back to the thirteenth century, with beheadings, starvation and kidnapping of Yazidi women as sex slaves in an attempt at a religious holocaust.
	Obama is doing the humanitarian thing, but no one can put the fanatics back in the box that was opened by Bush.
	TWO FACED DOLPHIN
	A two-headed dolphin washed ashore in Izmir, Turkey, previously one of the most fun spots on earth. However, with the strict, religious government looking down on public laughter by females? Not so much.
	By yesterday, however, the dead double-headed dolphin of Izmir had gone missing while, er, headed to a university for study.
	Word is that the dolphin was female and was beheaded for laughing in public.
	
	
	STINGS LIKE HELL
	The Clintons are like the scorpion from of the tale of the scorpion and the tortoise. They'll sting you because well, it's in their nature.
	Hillary Clinton just criticized President Obama's foreign policy, claiming it gave rise to ISIS. Really? Then why didn't she resign in protest of that policy when she was secretary of state instead of making deals with Russia for Boeing before doing so? Why did she say it was an honor to have served in his administration? Ow! That stings.
	BIZARRE BAZAAR
	Speaking of what goes around, Audrey Hepburn's granddaughter, Emma Ferrer, is on the cover of Harper's Bazaar's giant September fall fashion issue. Thing is, Emma was shot by Michael Avedon, the 23-year-old grandson of legendary fashion photographer Richard Avedon, whose muse was, you got it, Audrey Hepburn.
	On a mobile device? Click here to watch the video.