
	Were rock star politician Hillary Clinton's demands to appear at a university event in Las Vegas as big an expense, not to mention pain in the butt , as the bizarre, have-to-have demands of real rock stars who also appear in Vegas?
	Hillary
	Total extras: Around $150,000
	Drake
	Total extras: $283.64
	Mariah Carey
	Total extras: $6,000
	Madonna
	Total extras: Such a tremendous amount that Madonna should run for President. She certainly can spend other people's money like a candidate.
	FERGUSON SIMPLY ISN'T NYC
	Despite the Rev. Al's attempt to roil unrest after the killing of Eric Garner, New York City has remained calm. This is due in part to Mayor de Blasio's actions despite back-stabbing by Sharpton, and also because the NYPD and city government are racially reflective of the city.
	In Ferguson, so-called minorities are the majority: 67% black residents, with 50 white cops and three black cops.
	Why did authorities bring out the heavy artillery like they were fighting ISIS? Why didn't officials reach out to the real community leaders first? Pastors, the guys who organize Little League, community activists, teachers?
	Missouri State Highway Patrol Capt. Ron Johnson has been the only sane voice in the worsening situation, and his speech should go down as one of the great ones in American history. Anger is quelled with dignity, not duplicity. Is this Ferguson, 2014 or Mississippi, 1962?
	OUCH TO ALIMONY
	Divorce lawyers want me dead like a rat in the street. Big deal. I'd be worried if Putin or the Pope wanted me dead.
	After Sunday's anti-alimony Robin Williams column, they complained that women who have given up their educations so their husbands can get educated deserve to be "maintained" for as long as they want, so they can go back to school after a divorce.
	Really? The second wife of Williams was his kid's nanny-turned-producer on his films.
	What was she going to go to school for?
	It's 2014, do you know what time it is?
	Women must take care of their own educations before they worry about their husbands' schooling, and men should do likewise.
	Reality check: 40% to 50% of marriages end in divorce!
	Only bookies — and divorce lawyers — get rich from suckers who take odds like these.
	HER HPV IS NO LOL
	Melissa Mark-Viverito took time out from officiating at a wedding in Puerto Rico to tweet that she has the sexually transmitted virus, HPV. If there was one thing we needed to know on a quiet Sunday, it was that the City Council speaker is now a candidate for genital warts — as opposed to a candidate for higher office.
	What about keeping it to yourself and advocating safe sex instead of tweeting out this intimate news?
	Is there nothing private about public privates anymore?
	TOO MUCH SCHLOCKNADO
	Truth: Syfy has been in the cheeseola, B-movie biz for years. Truth: "Dinoshark" was better than "Sharknado." Truth: Because OMG! celebs started tweeting about this one, it took off.
	Truth: Ian Ziering — a guest stripper with Chippendale's before "Sharknado" hit — thinks, as reported in Confidenti@l, that he's worth more than the nearly half a million he made on "Sharknado."
	Truth: Ziering is as essential to flying sharks as Michael Madsen is to the giant snake monster in "Piranhaconda."
	A HELPING HAND FOR THE LONELY MAN
	For men whose left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing, er, comes Rev1000, listed by TouchOfModern.com as "a must-have men's masturbator that will soon be as ubiquitous as the right hand." Must-have for who? The extremely lonely, tech-savvy consumer? This is what you get while surfing for modern table lamps?
	LSTASI@NYDAILYNEWS.COM / TWITTER @LINDASTASI