
	He wasn't Abner Louima, Amadou Diallo or Sean Bell.
	Nor was he a hero - folk or otherwise. He wasn't a good man, a moral man, a family man. Hell, by the looks of it, he wasn't even a decent man. Good, decent men don't do what he did.
	He was not a man of conviction, unless you count his three drug convictions. No, he was a less-than-zero bum who became just another madman who thought he should be famous for no reason.
	More troubling, this man knew he could be famous by taking the same path to infamy that many, too many, despicable Americans have chosen lately for the worst of reasons by committing a newsworthy murder. He said as much to a bystander right before he became a cold-blooded executioner.
	
	In fact, Less-than-zero didn't just kill randomly, nor did he even kill someone he knew.
	No, this human garbage ratcheted it up a notch by picking a young Jersey City police officer, Melvin Santiago, to execute; a cop defending the neighborhood, a cop who had come to answer a 911 call that had been set off when Less-than-zero stole a gun from a drugstore security guard. As Officer Santiago tried to open his car door, Zero shot him dead in cold blood.
	This waste of a man wasted the life of a decent, moral, upstanding man because he wanted to be famous.
	No, you won't find his name here because Cathy McBride, the mother of executed Officer Santiago, begged the media to not make her boy's killer famous. That would be granting him his last wish. And she was 100% right.
	Santiago, on the other hand, was so young he never got the chance to even contemplate a last wish before the killer ambushed him with the stolen gun.
	
	Meantime, the killer's wife, who sounds as disturbed and disgusting as her ex-con, dead husband, went on TV to declare, "If they was going to stand over my husband and shoot him like a f---ing dog, he should've took all of them the f--- out."
	She later apologized, but the damage can't be undone.
	And just when we thought humans couldn't become any more inhumane than those two, Less-than-zero's neighbors erected shrines to the cop killer, tacking up white T-shirts for admirers to sign, and flying balloons as though he had been a murdered child.
	Better still, they also left in his honor dozens of empty liquor bottles. Appropriate. Even his admirers won't buy him a last drink.
	'KITTY' AIN'T SO PRETTY
	So Bethenny Frankel is so skinny that she's making obesity look good.
	The very desperate ex-"Housewife" has obscenely taken to wearing, and worse, posting photos of herself donning her preschool daughter's Hello Kitty pajamas like a scary clown out of a slasher movie.
	Does Bethenny really think women want to look like stick-thin lollipop heads in cartoon pajamas?
	Even if the whole world is laughing at her, it's really not funny. She's teaching her daughter that starvation and a good cocktail are the key to happiness. OK, I do get the part about the cocktail, but still.
	PIST-ING MATCH
	If you were on trial for murder based on allegations that you are a rage-aholic, wouldn't you stay home and order in - just to avoid any possibility that you might forget yourself and kill someone if you went out?
	Not if you're the Blade Runner, you wouldn't. On Saturday night, Oscar Pistorius got into not just one barfight but two until he was thrown out of the club.
	Seriously? It's so absurd, you'd think the prosecutor sent in a couple of bar fighters to make a point.
	FOR MEMBERS ONLY
	Rapper Christ Bearer, who has no junk left in his trunks after cutting off his penis in a drug-fueled frenzy, told the Daily News, "I definitely believe sex is for mortals, and I am God. So this is a blessing, not a curse." Who knew? Then, "I always say a penis is a penis."
	Spoken like a true god.
	SHE'S NO SHEPHERD OF TOTS
	Here's what's wrong with the whole surrogate baby business — it's a business.
	A big, big baby business that allows rich people to order up babies like designer dresses.
	If they change their minds, they just won't accept delivery.
	Literally.
	Take Sherri Shepherd who has tainted the whole process for the tens of thousands of couples for whom surrogacy is the only way.
	The Shepherd celeb surrogacy went horribly wrong when the diva decided she not only didn't want her husband anymore, but she also no longer wanted the baby she'd ordered up that had been created with his sperm, which will be born this month.
	It's time to woman-up, Shepherd, and love and care for the real-life baby who wouldn't have ever been created in the first place without your money and your interference.
	EXPRESS LINES
	DeB is going to Italy to show his kids their culture, meet with politicians and eat pizza with a knife and fork ... If you announce your engagement at Celebrity Fight Night, does it mean you're not hopeful about the outcome? Even so, Cheryl Hines is marrying RFK Jr., who thinks a side dish is a woman, not a small salad and fries ... Justin Theroux says his engagement to Jennifer Aniston "doesn't feel like a hardship." After that remark, it's about to become one.
	lstasi@nydailynews.com / TWITTER @LINDASTASI