
	Seriously? Just who can a man cheat with after he has had sex with Beyoncé? Ask Jay Z. Or better yet, ask any of the fools married to gorgeous, successful, madly talented women who figure there's something better out there just waiting for them.
	In light of the fact that Beyoncé and Hillary Clinton have both brought up cheating spouses in the past few days, the question of the week is: How is it that the more beautiful, talented, successful and smart celebrity women are, the more they get cheated on by men they shouldn't have bothered to have had lunch with, let alone marry?
	Smart women/idiotic choices, blind love or male Venus envy?
	Answer: All of the above.
	Maybe these men can't take being with women who are more powerful or at least as powerful as they are, and perhaps these women believe if they can just accomplish more, do more, be more, they will be worthy of these bums. Wrong.
	This week, the Daily News' No. 1 Most Powerful Woman in the City, Beyoncé, on tour with hubby Jay Z, changed the lyrics to her song, "Resentment," to hint that Jay Z had been cheating for 12 years.
	If all that hinting was true, that's about 11 years and 11 months longer than she should have stayed. But then again, why would she hint about something that makes one of the world's most beautiful women look like a sad case of desperation?
	Meantime, all that hinting pointed to singer Mya, who when asked on Instagram if she was Z's "side chick or nah?" she answered by equating herself with Jesus. "If they did it to Jesus, they'll do it to anyone."
	
	Of all the accusations thrown at Jesus, cheating on his rich, bodacious wife wasn't one that I recall.
	Yeezus, maybe, but Jesus? Nah.
	Speaking of Jesus, last week Hillary sounded more forgiving than the Son of God himself.
	While promoting her book, she told the BBC that forgiveness is a choice and that forgiving Bill for Monica "was absolutely the right choice."
	No, Hillary didn't throw Prez Bill out of the house, because for one thing, that would have required an act of Congress. Well, actually they tried to do that for her, but Bill so confused them with what the definition of what "is" is, that he got to stay and so did his wife.
	These two powerhouse women are hardly alone: Think Halle, Christie, Jennifer, Téa, Silda and Huma for starters.
	Stand by your cheating man, ladies, and you're standing alone.
	CHRISTIE GUNNING FOR NEWTOWN
	Forget Bridgegate. If Hurricane Sandy made Gov. Chris Christie a national hero, his remarks about Sandy Hook should turn him into a national pariah.
	By refusing to meet with and calling the pleas of the families of the 26 little children and staffers murdered by maniacal machine-gun-toting Adam Lanza "grandstanding" and "empty rhetoric," he has turned himself into Ann Coulter.
	By vetoing a bill to ban automatic weapons magazines holding 10 rounds and more, he turned himself into an apologist for murder.
	His reasoning? "Mass violence will not end by changing the number of bullets loaded into a gun."
	Really, Governor? All but two of the 26 innocents killed at Sandy Hook were shot multiple times. Get your head out of that long, black tunnel you're stuck in long enough to be a human worthy of heading the state of New Jersey.
	SCRATCH LINDSAY FROM THE GAME
	Lindsay Lohan celebrated her 28th birthday Wednesday by walking around the city in cutoffs exposing her banged-up, scratched legs, and also by suing Rockstar, the maker of Grand Theft Auto.
	She claims it stole her image for the character Lacey Jonas. And she's right. Because last time we looked, Lohan was the twin of young Pamela Anderson, whom the character actually resembles along with every boob-job blond in Hollywood.
	Good luck with that one.
	DOGGONE SILLY
	Naked dog lover Miley Cyrus Instagrammed a pic of herself in a tub with her dog. Cyrus was dogging Lena Dunham, a "Girl" who also spends more time on naked public display than Michelangelo's "David."
	Dunham also Instagrammed herself in the shower with her dogs. Somebody call the Humane Society!
	
	CHILDREN AT RISK
	In Arizona, a stoned woman, Catalina Clouser, drove 12 miles with her 2-year-old on the roof of her car. Her sentence? Sixteen years of probation.
	In Texas, drunken Kisha Young, drove with six kids on the roof of her car, injuring all and killing one. She has been charged with a felony.
	In Atlanta, monster perv Justin Ross Harris let his helpless 22-month-old son bake to death in his car, while he sexted underage girls. At least he has been charged with murder.
	On Long Island, Melvin Marroquin left his 2-year-old daughter in a 120-degree car while he shopped at Marshalls. The baby was thankfully rescued by cops and Marroquin was charged with endangering the welfare of a child and second-degree reckless endangerment. How is it possible that we get enraged over animal abuse and yet remain blasé about child abuse and murder? Do kids have to be carriage horses to get protection?
	OPIE MINUS ANTHONY
	My husband made it to Nixon's Enemies List as a youth agitator. Me? I made it to "Opie  Anthony's" Enemies List as a fat mullethead. So, yes, I hate them. They lie. I've never, God forbid, had a mullet. That being said, the suits at Sirius suddenly discovered that Anthony is racist and sexist? Hello? That's why they're called shock jocks and not inspirational speakers. That's why they hired them.