
	Good thing Hillary Clinton isn't running for president again. If she were, say, using this latest book tour to promote her candidacy — which of course she isn't — she'd have to declare Pinocchio as her running mate.
	So let me be the first to say that the accusations about Hillary being a liar are clearly just a vast right-wing conspiracy. Hillary's merely misinformed about her own life. We all know her solid record of honesty — no matter how painful the truth is. To others.
	Take that narcissistic Looney Tune, Monica Lewinsky. She's been the brunt of all that truth for years now.
	And yes, in the past there was the ducking-bullets-in-Bosnia-thing and the negotiating-peace-in-Northern-Ireland-thing, but let's not go there. Instead, let's tackle the latest lying-accusation-thing.
	I, for one, believe Hillary was not lying about how dead broke she and Bill were right out of the White House. What she meant to say was they actually earned about $12 million that year. Just not on the first day.
	And she's so honest that she now even admits that they still aren't doing too well, despite the $100-$200 million they reportedly have.
	Why, she even told The Guardian that they pay ordinary taxes, "unlike a lot of people who are truly well-off." Like? Like their friends who have billions as opposed to mere hundreds of millions?
	No, of course not. Hillary knows what it is to be poor. She was once the first lady of Arkansas, the second-poorest state in the nation, and even adopted a rural southern accent to be one with her people.
	And like Sir Edmund Hillary, for whom she was so proudly named, Hillary climbed the highest mountain and reached the highest summit. Oh, wait, what did you say? She admitted that wasn't true? Can't be. Why, even Sir Edmund told that story.
	OK, again, a silly mistake. Hey, I used to think I was named after the East German secret police.
	Just when you think things couldn't get worse, the ridiculous story has just resurfaced about how in 1975 Hillary successfully defended an accused child rapist and then joked about it years later.
	Just because she laughed in an audio tape about how the perp unbelievably passed a lie detector test, and just because the then-12-year-old victim says Hillary painted her as a liar who went for older men, and just because she wrote in "Living History" that she only took the case because she was appointed by a criminal court judge, even though she had earlier said (in that same hilarious rape tape) that she'd been asked to take the case by a prosecutor, doesn't make her a liar.
	Does it? Truly?
	NO, W WASN'T RIGHT ON WMD
	Sorry, Iraq War revisionists. The deadly chemical facility found by Iraqi extremists, is not a new discovery. Nor does it prove GWB was right about WMD. It's not even a discovery.
	In fact, the Al Muthanna WMD facility is such old news that it was even inspected by the Iraq Study Group several years ago, and so well-known that it was the subject of a BBC documentary in 1986.
	The Al Muthanna facility's ability to to produce chemical weapons ended with the Gulf war, and is "a stockpile of old damaged and contaminated chemical munitions (sealed in bunkers), a wasteland full of destroyed chemical munitions, razed structures, and unusable war-ravaged facilities." BTW? That's from the CIA website.
	ISIS's big "find" is really the Osama Bin Laden of WMDs: not well-hidden, impotent and dead.
	REASONS TO STAY INDOORS THIS SUMMER
	1. Shark attacks (one is swimming off the Jersey Shore and Discovery's Shark Week returns).
	2. Vampire worm-thing body invaders are out there (FX's "The Strain").
	3. Alien abductions are on the rise (HBO's fascinating "The Leftovers").
	4. Chainsaw and fencepost impalings are more common than you know (Discovery Fit  Health's normal "Untold Stories of the ER").
	5. Satanic possessions are trending (Science Channel's "Unexplained Files").
	Like I said, stay home, where it's safe.
	KHLOÉ'S KLUELESS ON INDIANS
	Last week, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office rescinded the "Redskins" trademark protections because the agency decided it was "disparaging to Native Americans."
	This week, the KKK — that's the Klueless Kardashian Klan — disparaged Native Americans even more at the world's most over-the-top birthday party for the world's most over-exposed baby, North West.
	Like a 1950s racially insensitive Hollywood bash, Kim and Kanye's 'do featured a tepee under which sat tribal daughter Khloé, decked out in a full Native American headdress. Apparently mixing up her Indians, headdress-wearing Khloé, like Columbus, mixed up her Indians and sat for photos in a yoga pose.
	If the "Redskins" can't be normally disparaging, why do the K's get to be patently disparaging? Let's demand the taste police charge them with crimes against humility.
	RED-FACED ON THE RED CARPET
	The Daytime TV Emmys, which are so boring they aren't even televised, began with a horrifying red carpet mess, during which inexperienced social media stars-turned-hosts Jessica, Harlow and Brittany Furlan even stunk up the outdoors with a racist comment and a rape joke. For sure, this will get millions of new followers.
	THICKE AND THIN
	In his new video "Get Her Back," Robin Thicke whines about losing Paula Patton, declaring in a text, "I kept trying to warn you you were pushing me too far ..." This from a guy who pushed hard and often against naked dancing girls in his "Blurred Lines" video as balloons informed us of his big, ah, shtick.
	One topless dancing girl, Emily Ratajkowski, so upset by it all, took time out from her new career as a movie star to pose topless in "GQ" just to let us know that the video that made her a star embarrasses her in bars. What?
	lstasi@nydailynews.com / Twitter @LINDASTASI