
	Why can't you ever find a cop when you need one?
	Take, for example, one man who - were he in an opposing government, we would probably accuse of mass murderer - is on the loose in our country and on full display in Rupert Murdoch's Wall Street Journal.
	Vice President Dick Cheney, who should have been convicted of murder and crimes against humanity, remains, instead, as loose as his lips.
	In fact, last week the shameless sociopath and his daughter, Liz, (who seemed to be there in name only) wrote an Op-Ed piece in the Journal, expressing his disgust at the way the current administration has handled his war.
	Clearly unfazed that he and his unindicted coconspirator, George The Brain Dead, were responsible for the deaths of 4,500 American and at least 500,000 Iraqis (two-thirds of whom were women and children, according to The Lancet) in an illegal war that left 51,000 Americans wounded, Little Dick-of-Death, is still trying to shove his lies down our throats.
	Problem is, nobody but The Wall Street Journal seems to be opening wide and saying, "ahhh."
	It's particularly interesting that Dickie's Op-Ed appeared in the bible of finance, and yet there was no mention of the financial burden his 12-year war has put upon us taxpaying slobs.
	Estimates go as high as $6 trillion, even though the Bush administration had predicted the whole thing would cost between $100 and $200 billion, done, finished, the end.
	That bit of over-budgeting comes to about $75,000 for every U.S. household.
	Dick, formerly the CEO of Halliburton, also forgot to mention that a Halliburton subsidiary, KBR, reaped $39.5 billion from the war, according to the Financial Times.
	In the Op-Ed, Cheney scoffs at the naiveté of President Obama for claiming in 2011, "The tide of war is receding."
	Apparently Dickie forgot about his boss' famous "Mission Accomplished" speech just weeks after invading Iraq in 2003.
	Cheney even criticized President Obama for taking a day off, saying, "Terrorists take control of more territory and resources than ever before in history, and (Obama) goes golfing."
	Meantime, No. 43 spent more than one year of his presidency at his ranch, often shooting doves (tragic irony noted).
	But of all the lies in Cheney's disgusting Op-Ed none is as insulting to the American people as this one: "Rarely has a U.S. President been so wrong about so much at the expense of so many."
	This from the man who helped usher in one of the longest wars in U.S. history, based on the bald-faced lie that Saddam Hussein was stockpiling weapons of mass destruction to destroy the United States.
	Cheney should return to shooting just his friends in the heart, because the rest of us are already heartbroken by what he did.
	EXPRESS LINES
	Wizard of Oz: Dr. Oz is not a quack. In fact, I tried his green coffee bean diet and quickly gained five pounds and was awake for five weeks straight ... Just a formality: Kim Kardashian is so formal that she even put on a tuxedo to walk her baby in NYC. It was frontless, but still ... It's Mick's schtick: Why do people expect Mick Jagger to be faithful to a dead woman when he has never been faithful to a living one in his life? ... Ever-evolving story: Scientists in Spain have discovered ancient skulls that display thick brow lines, heavy jaws, and small brain cavities - suggesting that they are either a pre-Neanderthal species, or prototypes for the current members of Congress. AC/D.C.: Former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum told a cheering anti-gay marriage rally in D.C. that it was up to them to "reclaim" the institution of marriage. Maybe straight couples could learn how to reclaim their marriages from married gay couples. The divorce and legal split among gay domestic and married partners is 1 percent a year, while among straights it's twice that at 2 percent.
	TEA PARTIER GUNS FOR VOTER SUPPORT
	Talk about Tea  no sympathy!
	Despite the horrific spate of school shootings, spree killings and gun violence in this country, Clint Didier, Tea Party Candidate for Congress, is offering supporters the chance to win a firearm — if they sign up at his website. Three big chances to win - three!
	So how does Didier top the firepower come-on if he wins in November? How about a "Win a Nuke for the Nativity!" sweepstakes?
	TIMES A WASTIN'
	Times Square was safer when it was all hookers and pimps. Over the past 10 days, cops busted two Statues of Liberty and one Spider-Man for groping, and another was convicted of harassment. "The situation is out of control, and a licensing and regulatory scheme must be put in place," said Tim Tompkins, president of the Times Square Alliance. This looks like a job for Superman!
	
	BAKED  STUFFED
	Does this pot make me look fat? So New York's marijuana laws would forbid you from smoking the stuff, but will allow you sniff it, swallow it, or eat it in baked goods.
	If New Yorkers with too much money were willing to pay $2,000 for a freaking cronut at the height of the frenzy, can you imagine what they'd pay for a potnut?
	If I'm packing on the pounds, I want more than a sugar high.
	JEREMY NOT SO MEEKS
	Is that a gun in your pocket or are you just happy to see me?
	Oh, damn, it is a gun.
	Last week the Stockton, Calif., police department posted a mug shot on their Facebook page of Jeremy Meeks, a 30-year-old movie-star handsome ex-con/gangsta who'd been arrested for having a gun in his trunk. The photo of the handsomest man never to have appeared in an Abercrombie  Fitch ad sent thousands of women around the world into a frenzy and nearly crashed the site. The bad news for women looking to hook up with the hunk is that he's married. The worst news is that his mom says he's been a good boy since he found God seven years ago.
	Apparently the ladies don't care if he's bad, married or packing heat. In fact, clearly they seem way less interested in the gun in his trunk, than the junk in his trunks.