
	This will forever be remembered as the Summer of Our Malcontent.
	Children all over the country are being tortured, murdered, abandoned, and roasted to death in 120-degree heat inside cars.
	In California, an 11-year old autistic boy was made to live in a dog cage until he was rescued.
	This past Sunday, 22-year-old Nicole Kelly of Queens, killed her 11-month-old baby, and on Monday, a 20-year-old prostitute, from North Carolina, Frankea Dabbs, shoved her baby in her stroller onto the subway platform at Columbus Circle, and hopped back on the train.
	Where has America's humanity gone?
	Take monster dad, Justin Ross Harris, who trapped his helpless 2-year old, son, Cooper, in the car to roast to death for seven horrific hours. He finally wept on Monday. Too bad it was at his own hearing.
	That much can't be said for his uncharged wife, Leanna, who snapped gum in court, acting like she'd lost her wallet, not her baby.
	As for the underage immigration problem, President Obama is too busy fund-raising in Texas to even make his way to the border see the thousands of refugee kids who are now in detention camps seeking asylum from violence in their countries.
	But hey, the administration is vowing to help by deporting most of the kids back where they will be probably killed or sold into the sex trade.
	I would like to relate once again, the story of my immigrant grandfather, Dominick Stasi, orphaned when he was 6 and his brother was 3. As children, they lived alone in a barn in Italy, and carried rocks to construction sites to earn money to come to the U.S.A. Eight years later, the boys walked about 100 miles from Belevdere di Spinello to the port of Reggio di Calabria and boarded a ship to the land of opportunity, the U.S.A.
	Though alone and broke, my grandfather worked, taught himself to read and write, and eventually became a street contractor. When he bought a home in Brooklyn, he called for the little girl he secretly had loved in Calabria.
	When my grandmother, Domenica, arrived with her mother, Grandpa rowed his little boat passed the Statue of Liberty to meet her.
	This disgusting, filthy, orphan kid and his wife had eight children who grew up to become Air Force officers, parents and proud, taxpaying Americans.
	UNHOLY MESS NEVER ENDS
	Half of the Midle East is at war once again.
	You only need to visit there once to immediately understand that the ongoing conflicts, which sometimes reach back thousands of years, can't be solved by the U.S., a country in its adolescence in comparison.
	On "Face the Nation" on Sunday, Sen. John McCain urged the President to send John Kerry to Israel to quell the conflict.
	"I think our secretary of state, Secretary Kerry, could go to the region and try to maybe do a little shuttle diplomacy," he said.
	Right. According to "Tablet" magazine, Kerry has met with or spoken to "(Mahmous) Abbas at least 34 times and talked a lot more frequently with (Benjamin) Netanyahu." That's more shuttling than NASA ever did in space.
	STILL CAN SPICE UP YOUR LIFE
	Posh has given up men (or one, anyway), and Scary has taken up with women (again).
	On Sunday, the world's whitest woman, Victoria Beckham, was videoed sitting next to Samuel L. Jackson at Wimbledon, and it looked like no love match.
	Beckham looked like she'd fallen out of "Gone with the Wind," and was terrified of him. Jackson, however, says the video is a "lotta bull----."
	
	Then there is Mel B, who, according to former Playboy Playmate Luann Lee, had a one-hour sex romp in a broken toilet stall while Mel's ever-patient husband, producer Stephen Belafonte, waited outside.
	So Posh isn't too skinny to be a fathead, and Scary's not too sweet for such a, er, spicy life?
	YANK HIM TO REALITY
	Used car salesman, Andrew Rector, who was called out by announcers for sleeping during a Yankees game has sued ESPN, the Yankees, and MLB for $10 million big ones.
	He claims he's suffering mental anguish and loss of future income. Is he also a psychic?
	The suit charges that announcers Dan Shulman and John Kruk suggested Rector "is a fatty cow that need two seats at all times."
	Even if Rector were those things, they never said it.
	NOT SO SMILEY MILEY
	Miley Cyrus' "Bangerz Tour" special on NBC was so low-rated (2.3 million viewers) that she has decided to amp it up and do something more shocking than twerking older men, publicly massaging her girl parts with a giant foam finger and doing nasty naked things atop a wrecking ball: She's getting dressed.
	EXPRESS LINES
	The first one standing at the "If anyone doesn't approve of this marriage" bit at the wedding of George Clooney and Amal Alamuddin will be the bride's mother. She isn't happy with the marriage. Hell, neither am I . . . Sarah Palin wants to be co-host on "The View." We already know her view: Russia from her house . . . Animals don't have feelings? Say that after watching the video of the elephant freed after 50 years in chains.