There's no question about it - apartment living in Australia is surging.What used to be regarded as the second-rate option for buyers who couldn't afford a house has now become mainstream - and with plenty of good reasons.There's not only the affordability factor, there's also the ability to be close to services, cafes and transport, and as downsizers tell me almost every week, there's the drawcard of no lawn to mow, and usually not much gardening either.For many downsizers, the prospect of weekends to themselves after a lifetime of chasing the lawnmower around a suburban block is bliss.Developers are trying to strike a balance between the different markets that now find apartments appealing - including first homebuyers, downsizers, investors and, to a lesser extent, young families.Angus Henderson, an architect from firm Turner who worked on the  in southern Sydney, says it is a "bit of a challenge" designing units to appeal to all buyers."We need to cater for the investor through the one-bedroom stock primarily. And then the younger more design-savvy demographic and then we go to the empty nesters as well, who are looking to downsize from a single dwelling home and still have all of that amenity," he says.Trying to make apartments more appealing has seen the rise of better-designed communal gardens and private terraces. Some developers are moving away from expensive gym and swimming pool inclusions, and are instead ramping up their outdoor spaces, including barbecues, better landscaping and more secluded garden zones where residents can find some solace or entertain guests.The vertical garden is well and truly on trend as are more air- and light-filled walkways and entrances.With the surge in new apartments comes plenty of glossy brochures and computer-generated images that are seemingly straight out of a designer magazine.However, buyer's agent Rich Harvey of Property Buyer says when you're looking for a property - be it an apartment or a house - it's important to see past the bling."So many [buyers] jump in and look at finishes and look at the fixtures or the inclusions but they've got the whole equation upside down," he says."They walk into a place or see a glossy magazine and go, 'that looks nice'. [But] the first thing you're buying is the location. Look at the fundamentals."If you're buying an apartment, here are five things to consider to find your perfect match.  It goes without saying that where you buy is paramount. Does it have all the services you need? If you like to walk to shops or transport, will you still be able to do that?What are the future development or infrastructure plans for the area, especially in the immediate vicinity? Do your own research on this, including talking to the local council.Do you have pets you want to bring, and will the by-laws allow that?For younger buyers, are you thinking of starting a family in the next five years, and if so, is the area and apartment suited to young children, and will you be able to afford the mortgage with extra costs and reduced income post-baby?For older buyers, if you are planning to travel, will you be able to lock up and leave the apartment easily?Research the developer and take the time to talk to other independently sourced people who have bought into their finished projects. Were they happy with the quality and timeliness? Have there been problems?  Apartments are getting more compact, which means they have to be extremely well designed to work.Get to know the floor plan and think about what you can really fit, even if that means plopping scaled cut outs of beds and lounges on the plan to see how it will all work.In established apartments it can be easier to see where everything goes - but you still need to study the floor plan as modern-day styling can make spaces appear bigger than they really are.Storage is always an issue that needs to be looked out - how much will there be, and will that realistically be enough?Are the proposed levies reasonable and realistic?  For off-the-plan apartments, the inclusions you see in the display suite might not be what you actually get. Understand exactly what you are buying.For established apartments, a renovation may be needed.Buyer's agent Chris Gray of Your Empire specialises in buying established properties for his clients. He says a full renovation of an older apartment - including stripping out kitchens and bathrooms, removing unnecessary walls, painting, redoing mismatched floor tiles inside and out, adding false ceilings where vermiculite exists, and installing new light fittings and carpets, costs about $70,000.