It was a house-hunters' Christmas smorgasbord come early. A whopping 1339 auctions took place in Melbourne last weekend and a record-breaking 979 properties went under the hammer in Sydney.Never before, so close to Christmas, had buyers had so much choice at auction. And despite the high numbers, 72 per cent of Melbourne properties were sold and Sydney cleared 76.1 per cent. But after such a frenetic auction year, what is in store post-Christmas? The recent Australian Property Monitors  certainly points to calmer sales conditions next year.The report predicts that 2014 will deliver at least one more interest rate cut prompted by rising unemployment "notwithstanding a downward trajectory for the local [Australian] currency dependent, as usual, on the international economy, particularly the performance of the US".While a further rate cut would be a bonus to mortgage holders "the impact on housing markets will be muted by concerns over job security and continued low income and profit growth", says the APM report."The prospect of a continued modest performance by the stock market will also act to subdue prestige property buyers - particularly in Sydney."APM says that by the time 2013 is done and dusted, the national median house price will likely have risen , which would be the best annual result since 2009, when prices jumped 12.6 per cent (on the back of falls during the Global Financial Crisis and prompted by lucrative first home buyer grants).But the data house, which is owned by Fairfax Media, expects to see smaller price rises across the nation next year, in the vicinity of 3-5 per cent.Sydney has been the standout performer of 2013 with median house price growth expected to come in at 11 per cent for the calendar year. Sydney house prices are likely to increase by 5 to 7 per cent in 2014 and most of that growth will be recorded during the first half of the year.Perth prices should be up 8 per cent by year's end. Perth's median house price should increase by between 5 and 7 per cent in 2014.Hobart is expected to have increased 8 per cent this calendar year. If early signs of improved economic activity continue, Hobart house prices could rise by 3 to 5 per cent over 2014.Melbourne should record a 7 per cent gain for 2013. Melbourne's median house price is predicted to increase by 3 to 5 per cent in 2014, dependent the economy improving in the second half of the year.Darwin should end the year with house prices up 7 per cent. In 2014 the top end capital's economic outlook is generally positive and median house prices should rise 5 to 7 per cent next year.Brisbane prices are expected to record a 3 per cent annual rise by year's end. Brisbane house prices should grow 3 to 5 per cent in 2014 to finally recover to their previous peaks of 2010.Adelaide should record a modest 2 per cent annual price increase for 2013. Talk of car manufacturer Holden withdrawing from Australia isn't helping the South Australian capital, which already has Australia's highest capital city unemployment rate. A weakening economy will continue to subdue buyer activity in Adelaide over 2014 with annual prices growth capped at about 3 per cent.Public service cuts have dragged on the ACT economy this year and house prices in Canberra are expected to have fallen 2 per cent during 2013. Further predicted job losses in the ACT mean the national capital's median house price will struggle to grow by more 3 per cent over 2014.