On the back of strong auction clearance rates, real estate agents drawing forward some of their existing auctions, and planning shortened campaigns for some of those they are yet to take to market.In Sydney's Cronulla, agent Luke Barbuto of Payne Pacific Estate Agents, is looking at running campaigns as short as two weeks."I haven't had done one yet, but I am definitely considering [it] through spring," says Barbuto."There are so many buyers and we don't need to wait four weeks to identify the likely buyers, two to three weeks would be plenty. It's not necessary ... to make buyers jump through hoops for four weeks, we may as well get them in to have a look at it and sell it."Barbuto, who usually runs month-long campaigns, says if he does go to shortened auctions, he'll be advising vendors to consider having independent pest and building inspections conducted and offer them to potential buyers. Reports can cost between $300 and $1000 depending on the nature of the property.That request might not wash with all vendors though: "Some vendors are on ball with it but others just ... believe there'll always be some doubt if the report is supplied by the vendor rather than the purchaser," Barbuto says.On the other side of the NSW capital, at North Sydney, agent Ken Folley of Forsyth Real Estate has already tested a fortnight-long auction campaign. Just last week he brought forward an auction of a two-bedroom art deco unit he had on his books.Folley normally runs three-week campaigns but had originally pushed the unit's auction out to four weeks because of the federal election. After several good offers he convinced the vendor to jump early, shrinking the campaign to just two weeks. Folley secured a record price for the unit's building at an auction on Saturday."When you get a lot of interest and when you have good offers come in, you're best to just nail it," he says. "That is what we did."Bringing the auction forward was a simply a matter of calling those who had already inspected the property - including the 35 who had taken contracts and the 11 who had made offers - and changing the information in advertisements.Was Folley concerned the market might turn if he waited until the week after the election? Not really, he says, but he certainly thinks the vendors would have had a lot more competition."My feel is after the election there will be a lot more stuff coming on the market," Folley says.Although the election is looming, Folley says if someone is keen to sell their home, "I would go for it now and go for a quick one", he says. "Literally after your first open ... if you have got good interest then you are better off just going to auction straight away".Last week Sydney had 420 auctions and Melbourne 589, with clearance rates of 79 per cent and 78 per cent, respectively, according to Australian Property Monitors. This weekend there'll be 550 auctions in Sydney and 706 in Melbourne as vendors attempt avoid the election day of September 7.