Spring is often heralded as the best time of year to sell your property - the birds are chirping, the air is warm, the flowers are out - and hopefully the buyers are, too.But what about taking your property to market in winter? The arrival of cold weather in southern Australia does not mean people stop looking to buy."I think winter is a great time [to sell] traditionally," says Alex Schiavo, director of Kay  Burton South Yarra and Albert Park in Melbourne."It's all about supply and demand. In winter there is always a lot less property available and we are still getting great results," says Schiavo.However, Robert Clarke, principal of Belle Property Annandale, in Sydney's inner west, says not all houses lend themselves to a winter sale."There are some houses ... we wouldn't suggest selling in winter," he says. "They are dark or they have got bad light. They are more prone to possibly get a better result in the summer months."Properties that can be attractive in winter are those that remain bright inside despite the drab weather - usually because they have got plenty of north-facing windows - or are presented as warm and cosy."A lot of old houses, if they are Victorian, they have got fireplaces and old formal rooms," says Clarke. "They present probably a lot better in winter than they do in summer."If you are selling during the cooler months, here's three things to considerIn the absence of blue skies, many agents change the way they show properties during winter."We might photograph differently," says Clarke. "We do a lot more dusk shoots, and the advertising might be a little bit warmer or it might have a glow to the pictures."How the home feels to buyers will depend in a large part on the furnishings.If the property is being styled, Alex Schiavo says his agency will often request furniture with thicker fabrics and warmer hues in winter."We do take all of that into consideration in terms of the tones and colours," says Schiavo."If you are going to have an opportunity with a house that is almost a blank canvas ... it is going to be those richer, deeper colours in terms of sofas and furnishings and pillows ... just to reflect the season that we are in."Just as you wouldn't schedule a property with a bank of western windows for an open house during a blazing hot summer afternoon, it's important to show the home off at its best in winter."It is obviously best to be showing a home when there's the best amount of light coming through," says Schiavo."Some homes are morning homes and some are afternoon."Take a buyer to a cold house in winter and it usually doesn't take long for them to leave, says Clarke."In summer we ask the clients to turn the air-conditioner on an hour before we get there to cool the house," he says."In winter, we definitely advise the clients to heat all the rooms. And to make the house inviting - put some nice music on and all that type of thing to get the house ready for opening."Both agents suggest lighting all working wood or gas fireplaces. "After all, you are selling a lifestyle to people," says Schiavo.