"When I grow something, something grows in me."It's a simple yet beautiful statement from a man who has led by example in humanising our cities, one seed and slotted drainpipe at a time - even if he does proclaim himself "lazy".Inner-city dweller Michael Mobbs has just released his new book Many readers would be familiar with the environmental lawyer who brazenly took his Chippendale home off the grid (electricity, water and sewerage) two decades ago, and then wrote a book about it called Mobbs' first book talked about solar panels, rainwater and backyard chooks - now quite common in many homes, but at the time of release all seemed reasonably unusual in an urban setting - if not a little weird and alternative - especially in a suburb on the fringes of the Sydney CBD.Mobbs's next iteration focuses on recapturing our urban areas for food production. To some it might sound a bit hippie, but just like solar panels and rainwater tanks, urban agriculture is becoming much more commonplace."When I moved to the city, I assumed I couldn't grow my food and would buy it," Mobbs writes in his book."That's what my city friends did. Where, after all, were the paddocks to grow wheat and corn, the irrigation, the cows and chooks? And so, following others, I began to buy my food from shops, supermarkets and farmers' markets."But over the years I've discovered we used to grow food in our cities, that when we know a few basic things any of us may grow food here."It's what out parents and grandparents did."We may grow food almost anywhere: at a house, unit, office, on the road, on a wall, fence or roof."Mobbs presents many convincing arguments for growing your own food - along with fresh, healthier produce that hasn't been routinely sprayed with pesticides, there are the benefits of getting out and meeting your community. There is also a compelling discussion about how growing canopies of shade can help to cool our urban environment. But  isn't just on the why, its very much about the how to.Mobbs has everything covered from making your own compost (he refreshingly admits: "Over a couple of years I've found a composting system that works for my lazy self. I can't deal with worm farms. I kept killing the worms and the waste went smelly.")And if you ever needed motivation to grow your own food, there is this: "When I lose interest in growing things what restores me is going out and picking something to eat or cook. It's as simple as that. Reward yourself from your garden and you'll find you keep on going."