I'm responsible for our Monday through Friday op/ed pages, which means selecting and publishing about 1,000 columns each year. That means I've picked almost 10,000 columns since taking this job in 2004.After nine years plus on the job and 10,000 columns published, I still find one topic that ignites like no other: abortion. There's something about abortion commentary — regardless of which side the commentary comes from — that makes folks forget what an op/ed page is for: Opinion.Regular column contributor Gordon Keith and First Baptist Church pastor Robert Jeffress are the latest writers to make readers heads explode over what should/shouldn't be worthy of our Viewpoints page. (Gordon and Jeffress made headlines together once before in a Viewpoints column that stirred folks up.)Gordon's column on Friday related how the death of Wendy Davis' dad caused him to confront fears about the deaths that will come someday in his own family circle.  This paragraph from Gordon's column says it better than I can:It's a special crime to see superheroes age. When the man who was once as big as a mountain shrinks back toward the ground, worn colorless and grooved by the years, you lose a navigation point that you once thought would guide ships forever. Especially yours. When you're young, you can't imagine the electric touch, the fearful shock, of the first time your hand reaches to steady a mountain. This I learned firsthand.Gordon Keith's columns are like the best of contemporary poetry — he doesn't tell you what to think or, necessarily, what he's thinking. The reader gets to do some dot connecting — and it's not unusual for the takeaways to be as different as the readers themselves.In his latest column, Gordon returns to abortion at the end and says he doesn't have the answers on that one. "I just know that mountains crumble. And those mountains are mourned by the ones who lived to grow up." (italics mine)I don't know which "abortion camp" Gordon falls into, but I read his column to be less pro-choice and more anti-abortion. But WOW did the comments explode with people who seemed to think Gordon had reeled them in on one topic only to go all pro-abortion on them. Thank goodness for the reasonable people who pushed back about the column.But the shock and awe about Gordon's column was nothing compared to the fallout around Monday's column by First  First Baptist Church pastor Robert Jeffress, who wrote that President Obama's case about the innocent dead children in Syria is undercut by his pro-choice stand.Jeffress contacted me late last week to pitch his piece. He is a local name that packs a lot of clout — and someone whose views reflect that of much of our readership. More important, our op/ed page wouldn't be doing its job if we didn't offer as many differing points of view as possible. After all, that's what we do every day.And I'm sure Pastor Jeffress' column linking Syria and abortion didn't seem any odder to some readers than today's essay by Sarah Richards on "fertility procedures in divorce" did to others. Not only did our comments light up, but Eric Nicholson over at Unfair Park questioned whether the Viewpoints page was the right venue to thrash this out. Not surprisingly, his readers' heads definitely exploded. (As did DMN Twitter followers who initially saw the column without Pastor Jeffress' name attached and for some crazy reason assumed it was the DMN's point of view!)Eric Nicholson is generally a reasonable guy and certainly entitled to his own opinion. I happen to disagree with him on this one. When he starts choosing the columns for Viewpoints, he can keep Jeffress and his abortion views off the page. Out of the 10,000+ I've published, I'll stand by this one.Like I said up top: Abortion, the great igniter.  (As I personally discovered when commenters demanded I give up my "feminist" credentials — whatever those are — here.)
