It's that time of year again - when there is a mad rush to spruce up  the house in time for Christmas. And for some, that means finally  getting around to that long-planned bathroom reno, powder room update,  or new ensuite in time for all the holiday visitors.If you're  thinking of doing a last-minute bathroom update, the time left to  arrange it is fast disappearing. In particular getting hold of a tiler  at this time of year is likely to be your biggest challenge.However, if you are going to dive in and do it now, getting your bathroom right is all about good planning.Start  by mapping out your room size and work out what you need, remembering  to allow space to comfortably move around, particularly if two or more  people will be using the bathroom at once.Things to consider . . .Are  you are contemporary? Traditional? Country? There's so many different  options that you'll probably need to have a good lie down after visiting  any bathroom or tile shop.The best way to approach it is to  start a "look book", trawl magazines and websites and compile  photographs of the looks you like. And then research tiles and fittings  that help you build that look.Be wary that in every shop you go  to the sales assistants will not only be trying to sell certain  products, they'll also have their own tastes. Which may be very  different to your own.A good place to start online is  - there's thousands of pictures of  "real" homes.Can  you fit a bath? Or will you have to opt for a bath-shower combination?  In the interests of space, you might be better off to do away with a  bath altogether if you just have a small bathroom.Will  you need heating? If so, you've got the option of either an overhead  Tastic-style heater, or the increasingly popular underfloor heating.The  latter is great for cooler climates, and you don't have to run it all  day, just a couple of hours in the morning and night is plenty to keep  the floor warm 24/7.If you want heated flooring, you'll just need  to factor it in early so provisions can be made for the wiring to be in  the right place.Do you want a big,  roomy, shower or are you happy to have something a bit more compact?  Walk in showers look fantastic but remember to take into account the  splash zone, and the extra waterproofing that will be required.Remember  you'll need to include a ceiling or wall exhaust for the steam. Many  are ducted to the outside these days, or you can buy ducting kits from  the hardware store.Look for options with draught stoppers, which  are simple plastic flaps that help to keep air in or out when you want  to, increasing your home's efficiency.You can also buy  which turn the exhaust fan on when needed.The  worst thing about rushing is you can end up with something you really  don't like, chosen in haste. Do you really need the bathroom done by  Christmas, or could it wait until next year?Unless you've got  stacks of cash to burn, you'll probably be living with the bathroom for  at least the next 15 years, and you want it to last the distance, which  means choosing well in the beginning.Before  spending a cent, have a talk to one, or several, tilers, plumbers and  sparkies to see just what is possible and to get an idea of costings.Exactly  how you do your bathroom is up to you - you can either engage each  trade separately, or have a bathroom renovation company do the lot.  Similarly, many tilers will also bring a plumber and electrician as part  of their team - just be aware they may charge extra for doing so.Remember  to ask your tradespeople if they have trade accounts with tile,  plumbing and electrical suppliers, and if so, are they able to access a  discount. Many are happy to do so in part, or full.Seek your own, separate quotes from stores to check if the price the tradesperson is offering is cheaper.