Basil. Chives. Mini capsicum and luscious lemons. These are just some of the things that were planted on our front boundary fence this week.The goal - to create an edible hedge and to start sharing with the neighbours.The materials - eight dwarf citrus, eight regular citrus and three three-metre-long raised garden beds.The response from visitors and passers-by has almost all been the same. "But won't people lean over the fence and pick it?" they ask, looking concerned."Yes! Exactly. Let's hope they do," is the response.In fact, we plan to provide a couple of pairs of cheap kids scissors and some bags in the hope that once the garden gets going, the neighbours, finding they need a few sprigs of rosemary for a recipe, or a sprinkling of chives to finish off a meal, will dash over and help themselves.It is, in a way, to provide a community resource and give neighbours a chance to meet each other. It's also, from a practical point of view, a way of sharing excess food. After all, how much basil can you really use in the peak of the season?In some ways, it's another version of the trend of verge planting - where people plant vegetables on their nature strips.Instead, we've put drought-tolerant low-growing natives on the nature strip.By keeping the edibles behind the front fence but within reach, we figured they would be easier for us to water, fertilise and keep in check but still achieve the same effect as the verge planting concept.It's also a way of providing some native habitat, bright flowers and edibles all in the one area.The next step is to build a little bench off one end of our low-brick fence and paint the back of it with chalkboard paint. It will be multipurpose - providing a rest area for older people walking in the community and a spot for our children to linger if they've come home from school or are collecting the mail (or picking strawberries).Its real job, though, will be as a tidy, flat area, where excess vegies from our back garden can be placed with "for free" signs. With any luck some of the neighbours might just bring a few things to swap as well.The project has been two years in the making - mainly because been house renos and child rearing and that old thing - work - have taken precedence.First up was to remove all the roses and pull out all of the old, skinny garden edging, along with the 1950s slim cement path that ran behind the front fence.Roses are pretty - but they look bare half the year and seem a lot of bother for what they give back.Next steps were to sink new edgings - in an attempt to hold back the lawn from encroaching, or at least slow its march to manageable - and to improve the soil with plenty of compost, cow manure and pellets of chicken poo.Next came the raised garden beds, custom made from a tank supplier. We've installed a water pipe and risers under those as they have thirsty herbs and easy to pick vegies in them, such as lettuce and heirloom mini capsicums.We filled the raised beds with good quality soil and finished that off by digging through mushroom compost and more cow poo.Then the exciting part - planting all the seedlings - including juicy strawberries (already producing), kale and edible carrot leaves.Lower-growing plants were positioned closer to the street side, with the higher plants behind. That should make them easier to pick and see, and also ensure they all get adequate sun, as the front of the beds face north.We've also got three types of mint waiting to go in. But, given their tendency to take over the garden, they'll each need their own pots.The dwarf citrus trees have been planted behind the raised beds, and in three or so years should start producing nicely, giving us and others plenty of fruit and also providing a living screen. Luckily we had a few three-year-old trees in some pots already, so we might even get a decent crop from those ones this summer.The regular citrus have been planted between us and a neighbour to replace a previous hedge that liked, annoyingly, to grow into the power lines. This shouldn't be such a problem with the citrus.For the trees, we considered other fruits but opted for citrus as they are evergreen.Now, it's just a matter of waiting for it to all start growing.