In the next few weeks we are planning some minor remodels - lifting  the carpets in an old garage conversion and downsizing a laundry to make  way for a new pantry.It's all fairly straightforward stuff. But  because the house was built in the '50s, and then renovated slightly in  the '60s, the word on my mind is the big A - asbestos.It was  heightened this week by a  about asbestos being found in  electricity-meter boxes, reminding everyone of just how pervasive the  use of asbestos was in older houses. It is an issue that Asbestos was used in everything from fencing to fire doors. For images of some of the products that contain asbestos, see .If  you own an older house, it probably all sounds a bit depressing. The  good news is that many asbestos products are said to pose little risk as  long as they are in good condition and left untouched.Sometimes the best thing you can do is paint them, where appropriate, and leave them in place.But when people first buy a house they are, understandably, very keen to rip in and renovate, and maybe even take a few risks.But testing for asbestos is  simple. It costs about $100 a sample, depending on where you have it tested.You  can send small samples through the mail, as long as they are double  bagged in a sealable bag such as a zip-locked sandwich bag. This week I  posted off two samples of suspect products around my own house - some  lino-looking tiles that lurk underneath some very unattractive green  carpet squares in the garage conversion and some fibre cement lining  board.Finding a testing facility was fairly straightforward - an  internet search - and checking it was accredited was easy enough too,  with a visit to the ,  where I searched for the companies I had found.Many testing  companies have procedures for safe ways to sample small sections of  suspect materials. A thumbnail size of the material is about all you  need.Here is a how-to list from testing company Airsafe:When  I took my own samples I added a couple of extra precautions to the  list, including wearing disposable gloves and immediately changing the  clothes I had been wearing and putting them straight into the washing  machine. However, it would have been smarter to wear disposable overalls  instead, which only cost a few dollars.On the website of another tester, Envirolab Services, there are warnings against sampling sprayed finishes."If  the material you are considering sampling looks like a sprayed finish,  particularly if it is insulating material on pipework, boilers or  ceilings, do not sample this yourself," the company advises."Special  precautions are required for sampling this material. Disturbing lagging  that contains asbestos is extremely dangerous and should only be  carried by qualified individuals."I posted my samples on Friday  and early this week received a notice they had been received. I am  expecting the test results in another day.It was so straightforward, you have to wonder why there is not more education about getting suspect materials tested.