Heard the old sexist joke about how many men it takes to change a light bulb? None ... it's a women's job. Or was it clean the toilet? No matter, it illustrates a point.How many rate cuts will it take to boost the property market? None ... it's a confidence job. Yes, falling rates may help to boost confidence but they aren't the only factor at play.In days gone by, when everyone was feeling generally happier about their lot, it would have been easy to argue that a cut or two could get people out and buying again, boosting prices and giving a much-needed lift to our residential construction sector.But burnt by the realisation - in the wake of the global financial crisis - that access to big loans isn't an open chequebook but is instead a heavy burden to bear, it could take more than one or two rate cuts to improve confidence.Why? Because there's the worries still hanging around about the global economy, the pain that the two-speed economy is inflicting and the fact the banks have been slyly lifting their rates out of cycle over the past few months, undermining consumers' confidence that they know where they stand, and that official rate cuts will deliver relief.Given talk continues about banks' funding costs still being under pressure, despite the clawback that has been happening in recent months, borrowers are still widely expecting that any rate cuts won't be passed on in full."Even if there's a couple of rate cuts [equalling] 0.75 over the next three months or four months, I don't think that alone is going to dramatically change the real estate market because economically there's a lot of factors that have affected the last couple of years of a falling market," says Sydney real estate agent and auctioneer Ivan Bresic, director of BresicWhitney Estate Agents."There are wider economic issues rather than just rate cuts: job losses, lesser bonuses in the finance sector [and] house price drops over the past two years."Bresic says he has noticed some recent stabilisation of prices in the areas he sells in - Sydney's inner city, inner west and east. He says rate cuts would be a step in the right direction and "will create some mortgage relief for borrowers and if anything, it certainly could entice a few more buyers".CommSec chief economist Craig James isn't too sure how big an impact a rate cut could have on the property market."That's a difficult one because interest rates are already reasonably attractive," he says."We do know that there's plenty of bargains out there for cashed-up buyers. But the missing ingredient is basically confidence."The job market is still reasonably healthy, so the unemployment rate nationally is still a bit over 5 per cent, so that's alright."A limited supply of new properties due to lack-lustre construction should also be providing a boost to the market, James says."I think it's down to confidence and it remains to be seen how people respond to interest rate cuts."But just how many rate cuts it takes to restore confidence is anyone's guess."I don't think even the Reserve Bank would have an answer to that," James says."It's how long is a piece of string. Confidence is an amazing variable - once things really start to move, they can move very, very quickly."We do know anecdotally that investors are certainly dipping their toes into the market; the more astute investors are already grabbing opportunities."Will today's cut of 0.5 per cent be enough?"Perhaps that is enough, but I think it will take more than one, certainly."