There's times in life when you wonder whether you have been living under a rock. Like a few weeks ago when a friend mentioned to me that she wanted to buy a robot to clean the floor.A what? Do these things actually work? I had vague recollections of seeing something that looked cheap and nasty on the telly that gave off the impression it might last about as long as a McDonald's Happy Meal toy, and be about as useful.But with two mess-making ankle biters in the house, anything that breaks the daily grind of washing, sweeping/vacuuming and doing the dishes is welcome. And as it turns out, robotic floor cleaners have come a long way in recent years.After doing some research online, I found out there's a few leading brands that have decent warranties and a good reputation among forums on the web. Among them are the Roomba iRobot, LG Roboking and the very '70s looking Neato.The Neato and the Roomba both get a good wrap but I single out the Korean-made Roboking for the fact I can buy it locally, and there's also Australian servicing available. Just like the Roomba, the latest model isn't available in Australia, but the ones that are look fancy enough for me. The Roboking has an advertised price of $849 and at Harvey Norman a shelf price of about $750. However, a call beforehand highlighting an online price of $655 brings the price down to that. I could buy it online for the same price but now I've read how good these babies are, I'm very keen to try one out ASAP.We christen our VR5902LVM LG Roboking automatic bagless vacuum cleaner Nancy. As in Fancy Nancy. Despite her masculine brand name, she has to be female because of the sexy computerised voice she talks to you in.Nancy is ruby red and only 9cm high, low enough to fit under all of our furniture. But just at the right height to get stuck under the edge of the linen cupboard from time-to-time. No bother, it's simple enough to move her and send her on her way again.She wizzes around a bit like a hockey puck, cleaning the floor in what seems a random but precise manner before returning to her base station and docking to recharge her battery.Underneath Nancy is what looks like old-style carpet brushes, and inside a small box to stash all the hair, dirt, bits of food dropped by the kids and puppy fluff. The box looks impossibly small but it can pack a surprising amount in. is big in our house at the moment so the four-year-old was a bit disappointed to find Fancy Nancy, being a robot, didn't have "butt guns" to blow up the baddies, but instead uses her quick rotating brush to suck 'em up. She also has cameras top and bottom to map the room, and edge bumpers to sense whether something is solid or not.Two weeks on, Nancy has done such a good job cleaning the wooden floors, low-profile mats and laundry and bathroom tiles that the regular vacuum and brush haven't been taken out once. (We still mop once a week, but there's no need to sweep or vacuum beforehand now. There are "wet mopping" versions of Fancy Nancy from other brands but the reviews I can find aren't too complimentary.)There's a small bit of cleaning of Nancy herself that needs to be done - emptying the dust bin and yanking out the hair that gets twirled around her brushes. But that takes maybe a minute, perhaps two, tops.The hardest thing is keeping the kids from turning Nancy on 15 times a day and driving her around the house like a remote-controlled car using the palm-sized remote that she comes with.I don't normally get excited about appliances (for example, dishwashers sometimes seem to make more work than they save) but I think if Nancy was a person I might want to marry her.Sure, she cost a lot, but with the floor clean, the house looks a lot nicer (and bigger - funny that) 24/7. So far, she's definitely earning her keep.