With the Reserve Bank serving up a rate cut, it's a smart move to  keep your repayments at the same level. Many lenders don't automatically  reduce your repayments when rates fall.That doesn't mean, of  course, that you're not getting a cut in interest rates - just that your  weekly or fortnightly (or monthly, but don't pay monthly, it will cost  you more in the long run, as explained below) repayments stay the same.That's  smart because automatically you're paying an extra $45-$60 (or whatever  it equates to on your mortgage) a month, which will see you get out of  the debt-jail sooner.And with house prices stagnant or falling, the one smart way to make money out of your property is pay it off more quickly and reduce the overall cost of acquiring it.It has, of course, always been the best way to do things. Ask any pre-baby boomer and they will tell you that.But in the heady debt-fuelled days of recent past it seemed too easy that you could buy a place, sit it out, burn up the redraw facility on the loan on cars, clothes and overseas holidays, and still double your money in a decade. However, after such big run-ups in house prices, everything has softened and we're not likely to see similar increases in home prices anytime soon.Not that a slowing housing market is necessarily bad - despite the general pall it throws over things. Investors may want those days to return but most people can see that steady prices are a lot healthier.Houses, after all, are primarily for living in. There are other money-making vehicles out there that don't put the cost of basic shelter out of the average person's reach.And the slowing housing market also - in part - took the pressure off the Reserve Bank to keep hiking rates after last year's Melbourne Cup.When it comes to the cost of acquiring a home, you can do it the expensive way - borrowing the money (as most of us have to do), or the really, really expensive way (borrowing money and taking forever to pay it off).Let's assume you're paying 7 per cent on your mortgage now and you've borrowed $500,000 to buy your place. Pay it off monthly over 25 years and you'll fork out a total of about $1,060,147.Add another $60 a month to your repayments and you'll be up for a total over the life of the loan of $1,031,230, saving $28,918.Pay down an extra $200 a month, or about $50 a week, and suddenly you're up for a six-figure total instead of a seven, of about $975,321. You'll also save an impressive $84,842. And you'll walk away from the shackles of that mortgage more than three years earlier.Of course your mortgage might not be $500,000, so to find out how it works in your situation check out some of the online calculators  It's worth bookmarking the site and going back to it every time you need a bit of motivation to pay down the mortgage faster.And another trick - now well known by many - is to pay fortnightly and not monthly. You'll end up thousands of dollars ahead by taking advantage of the fact there's 12 months in the year, but 26 fortnights, meaning you make one fortnight's repayment more per year than you would if you were paying monthly.