The shock of receiving a cancer diagnosis can be so great that the patient might hear nothing after the word "cancer" is spoken by the doctor. No matter that it seemed to be the inevitable outcome, and no matter how ready you are with the questions for the doctor, your reaction is not always what you expected it would be and sometimes those questions go unasked.At this point we assume that the doctor will gently and carefully explain the pathway ahead - the surgery and treatment - and outline the implications and side effects of radiotherapy and, especially, chemotherapy.For the growing number of young women who receive a breast cancer diagnosis, there is one extremely important implication of chemotherapy treatment - its possible effect on their future ability to have children.It would seem obvious, therefore, that these young women should be given the option to visit a fertility clinic to discuss the possibility of freezing their eggs or embryos.From a recent survey of 50 breast care oncologists, surgeon and nurses - conducted by Breast Cancer Care - it appears that 88 per cent of younger women with breast cancer are not being referred to a fertility clinic. An estimated 5,000 young women across the UK have been denied the chance to have children in the future and - despite the doubts raised by "Canadoc" in comments under a previous blog post of mine - the numbers will only grow. Breast cancer in young women is not now such a rare occurrence.A third of those surveyed admitted to not explaining how chemotherapy could affect fertility and, thus, leaving the women unaware of the risks. A third also failed totally to discuss fertility options, so that women could make informed decisions about their future fertility and 26 per cent reported that there was no clear system set up to promptly direct patients to fertility clinics.A cancer diagnosis at any age brings with it a myriad of difficulties - physical and emotional - but this particular implication is not appreciated by many patients, even those with a medical background.Catherine Coombe was given her diagnosis at the age of 39 and she said that "Despite having a nursing background, I didn't fully realise the damaging impact treatment would have on my fertility. This was never addressed. At such an overwhelming time, I just didn't think. I was only focused on getting the cancer out and getting better. It was only much later I realised the option of having my own children was gone and that made moving forward from my diagnosis so much harder."Catherine is not alone. The Breast Cancer Care survey found that 60 per cent of women are unaware that infertility is a real possibility when a woman goes through chemotherapy treatment for breast cancer.My question, of course, is "Why are these health professionals not offering young women the chance of fertility treatment?" Surely this should be a natural part of the diagnosis and treatment explanation? Do they actually need a "clear system" to be set up? Can a referral not be made without a "system"? Are there some doctors and nurses who do not believe in referring these young women? It is very perplexing and grossly unfair for the current 5,000 women who have been denied the possibility of having children.If you are a health professional and can answer my question, please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.As Samia al Qadhi - CEO of Breast Cancer Care - said: "We urgently need all healthcare professionals to talk to women about their fertility options at the point of diagnosis."Grete Brauten-Smith is Breast Cancer Care's Clinical Nurse Specialist for younger women with breast cancer. Grete said "A consultation with a fertility expert might not mean a guaranteed pregnancy but we must ensure women have the chance of considering their options. Only then can they make an empowered decision about their future fertility."For young women - under 40 - this is often the time in their lives when their attention turns to children and suddenly they find that their world shrinks to one of treatment, recovery and survival. Unless their doctor alerts them to the potential negative effect of chemotherapy, this might be something which comes to light far too late. This hidden effect can leave a truly devastating legacy.Breast Cancer Care's "Hidden Effects Campaign" can be found here.