Last February I wrote a blog post about vitamins - "Will someone tell me which vitamin pills actually work?" Among the many emails I received - mostly in favour of using supplements - was an invitation from Nature's Best to have a "nutritional and vitamin deficiency assessment".This would involve completing (honestly!) a health assessment form, giving information about lifestyle, diet etc; then a visit to an independent laboratory - Biolab - where I would have a blood test; followed by a telephone consultation with one of Nature's Best's nutritionists to discover the results and hear in which vitamins or minerals I am deficient and, therefore, which would be of benefit. Six months later I would repeat the exercise to see whether or not the suggested supplements have made a difference.This seemed too good an opportunity to miss and I accepted the invitation. Six months have passed and the results from the second blood test have been analysed and the extra supplements suggested have, indeed, made a difference - particularly to my Vitamin B levels.Not only were both the nutritionists extremely knowledgeable, but they explained in great detail the missing ingredients from my daily diet. Like many other people who have had cancer, I avoid dairy, red meat and processed foods, and eat large amounts of fish, vegetables, nuts and seeds - organic if possible.Why then, despite trying to eat as healthily as possible, should I need extra vitamins and minerals? The answer may be that I am getting older - for instance, Vitamin D is needed after the age of 35 when our bone mass drops and can become compromised by a lack of this vitamin - or it could be to do with the soil in which our vegetables are grown.I listened recently to an American radio programme, "Five to Thrive Live" on the Cancer Support Network (online at w4cs.com) and heard a naturopathic oncologist, Dr Tina Kaczor, from the Clinic of Natural Medicine - do we have naturopathic oncologists in the UK? - speaking about exactly this subject. She was describing how we are all being encouraged to "eat locally and eat in season" which, in itself, is good advice. However, it all depends on the local soil. Dr Kaczor explained that where she lives - in Oregon - the soil is selenium deficient and selenium, along with chromium, zinc and the B vitamins, is particularly essential after surgery and treatment, to help the general healing process. She questioned, too, what the farmers are adding to the soil in the way of pesticides, weedkillers and growth additives.While she is clearly a great believer in supplementing the diet, she was adamant that patients should have more knowledge of what should - and should not - be taken during cancer treatment. Copper, folic acid, beta-carotene and boron should all be avoided. Research shows that copper is needed for new blood vessel development, but, "if there was a microscopic amount of cancer present, copper could support its growth"; folic acid could "process cancer from precancerous lesions in colon and breast cancer"; boron "in large amounts raises the oestrogen level" and there is some evidence that beta-carotene is "not desirable for people with breast and lung cancers."This is all very complicated but, on a practical level, do those of us who are taking supplements know how and when to take them? The common understanding, from the labelling, is to take them with a meal - but which meal? Does it matter what time of day? Do we simply swallow our handful all at once? Will we develop "pill fatigue"?Supplements are not cheap and there seems little point in spending the money if we are not taking the tablets in the correct manner. The nutritionist went through my list: turmeric should be taken on an empty stomach and with fish oil; magnesium citrate at bedtime; zinc and vitamin D in the afternoon with food - avoid takingvVitamin D at bedtime, as it could affect your sleep; the doses of vitamin C should be spread throughout the day and taken with dietary fats (milk, nuts, yogurt or avocado).Unlike French doctors, many of our UK medics are not convinced of the need for supplements, yet hundreds of tablets are consumed each day. Some supplements - like valerian, taken to help the brain to calm down and give a good night's sleep - have been rigorously tested and licensed but UK manufacturers are not allowed to make medical claims for others and, more importantly, give any indication on the packaging of the correct method of administration. Clearly, there is good evidence for the efficacy of supplements but more research-based evidence is needed so detailed "directions for use" can apply to all of them.Nature's Best's nutritionists stress that supplements are not a substitute for a varied diet and, as Dr Kaczor said, must be used only "to address your particular concerns and as a safety net".There is an enormous amount of information on the Nature's Best website, and free nutritional advice is available by telephone and email.