When a young woman or man consults the GP - because of a lump, a pain or a change in the nipple or skin of the breast - cancer is rarely the first thought in the doctor's mind. Sometimes it is not in the patient's mind either - because the young tend to stay away from doctors. So when alarm bells do start to ring and an appointment is booked, why is it that, all too often, the patient is sent away?One such young woman was Connie Johncock, who - aged 22 - was "too intimidated by her GP to return until a year later", by which time the lump was larger, the nipple was inverting and there was dimpling in the breast tissue." This time she saw a different doctor who sent her straight to a Breast Cancer Clinic, where Connie discovered that the cancer had spread to her liver. Her message to other young women and men is "Don't be put off by your GP."The same message comes from Kris Hallenga, whose story is probably the best known. Kris was 23 when she found a "lumpy boob" but the GP insisted that it was bound to be hormonal. Eight months later, with the help of her Mum, she finally managed to persuade her GP that a bleeding nipple could not be "hormonal" and a Consultant pronounced Stage 4 breast cancer. As Kris says "There is no stage 5". Part of the work of Coppafeel - the charity Kris and her twin sister, Maren, founded - is to give young people the confidence - and a helping hand, if needed - to insist on a GP referral to a Breast Consultant or Clinic.Coppafeel works to raise awareness of the disease in the young - university campuses and music festivals all host representatives of the charity who spread the word; explaining how to check yourself and encouraging everyone to sign up for a monthly reminder text or email.Along with Coppafeel, there is "Keep A Breast", which is doing a similar job - often using art to "deliver difficult subject matter" through storytelling and its Travelling Education Booth. KAB was founded by Shaney Jo Darden, when a couple of her friends were diagnosed in their 20s. The charity offers a monthly self-check mobile app called "CheckYourSelfie" and information about diet, exercise and living a non-toxic lifestyle.The number of young women in the UK diagnosed with the disease - under the age of 40 - grows apace but there are excellent support groups available. The Younger Breast Cancer Network UK was founded by Victoria Yates and is an online support group for breast cancer sufferers under the age of 45, which enables women to find comfort speaking to others who are going down the same road; have the same worries about family and children; or who cannot now have that much-wanted baby.Led by a counsellor, The Breast Cancer Havens - in London, Leeds and Hereford - have younger people's support groups, which meet regularly to discuss "concerns about surgery and treatment, fertility issues, managing a social life, feeling isolated because none of your friends understand, relationship changes and returning to work".Breast Cancer Care runs a "Younger Women Together Event" every year with workshops and sessions relating specifically to the needs of those who have been diagnosed with primary breast cancer in the past three years.On a practical level, Tom Thostrup has set up The Eleanor Rose Foundation in memory of Ellie Jeffrey - who died a few weeks before their planned wedding, aged 29. Ellie was a well-known face on Sky and ITN News, but when the cancer took hold she had to stop working. Her experience of living with secondary breast cancer has given Tom the basis for the charity. With energy and funds low, it would have been an enormous benefit to Ellie if she could have enjoyed some complementary treatments close to home, an outing to the cinema or a meal in a restaurant. Indeed, even travelling the 40 minutes to Maggie's London to have some "pampering" became impossible. The Foundation hopes that individuals and organisations will join "Ellie's Friends" in offering their services either free of charge, or at a reduced rate, to help people living with cancer. If you are a complementary therapist, a hotel with seasonal rooms empty, a travel company with offers on flights or self-catering weekends, please contact The Eleanor Rose Foundation.Support - whether it is from a family member or a stranger experiencing the same disease - can work wonders. In the USA, when Jennifer Merschdorf was diagnosed, aged 36, her husband cleverly broke the news to family and friends with an email which said: "Hi everybody. If you have any way of connecting Jennifer with another young woman with breast cancer, please send her the information." Within 24 hours, 13 "Angels" had appeared from all over the world, who were able to support Jennifer through the first weekend after diagnosis.