Ismena Clout may not be a familiar name to people outside the breast cancer community, or those who did not read her contributions to The Independent and the Huffington Post, in which she blogged regularly about her disease. Ismena was one of the growing number of young women (and men) who are diagnosed with breast cancer and whose disease becomes secondary/metastatic/advanced. I write "was" because Ismena died last month. She was diagnosed ten years ago and, for the last three years of her life, lived with secondary breast cancer.The pink wash which pervades Breast Cancer Awareness Month does a good job in alerting people to the disease and raises much-needed money to help the breast cancer charities with their work, but Breakthrough Breast Cancer's research tells us that 55 per cent of the UK population does not know the meaning of "secondary" breast cancer. Many do not realise that, should breast cancer spread to another part of the body, it is still breast cancer, no matter whereabouts in the body the new tumour appears.The "Here and Now" patient survey (about which I wrote on 25th July 2014), commissioned by Novartis Oncology, distributed by Breast Cancer Care and illustrated by the installation called "I Am Not the Cancer" - in which Ismena played a large part - showed just how it is possible for those with a secondary diagnosis to feel emotionally, psychologically and financially isolated. For some, a secondary diagnosis even means isolation from those whose breast cancer has not metastisised. "I Am Not The Cancer" needs a much wider audience.Five years ago, Breast Cancer Care identified a specific day during Breast Cancer Awareness Month to be dedicated to those with secondary breast cancer. The charity's website carries an enormous amount of information focusing on all aspects of a secondary diagnosis. How will life change? Will the diagnosis affect work? Will intimate relationships be affected? What about exercise - what about fatigue? How to live with the uncertainty?The final concern - and perhaps the most feared - is the pain.Breast Cancer Care's "Hidden Effects" campaign focuses on exactly this point. Pain can be related to the cancer itself or it can be a side-effect of treatment. Either way, it is vitally important that the patient knows where to go to find help - and not be dissuaded because the help might be from a hospice and described as "palliative care". This does not mean that the cancer has, necessarily, become worse - it is simply that the hospice teams specialise in pain control and it is definitely possible for it to be controlled.I suspect the term "palliative care" should be dropped in these instances and a new description found, leaving those two words to be applied (as originally intended) to care given in the last weeks of life.Research by Breast Cancer Care shows that 90 per cent of respondents to its survey said they had been in pain from cancer during the past month. These people are living needlessly with uncontrolled pain, and 41 per cent have never been offered the required referral to a palliative care team. Yet it is evident that the earlier people with secondary breast cancer are introduced to palliative care, the better their quality of life. Quite why GPs and Cancer Centres are not offering the possibility of a referral is a mystery. Cost? Care for those with secondary breast cancer must be improved - please sign Breast Cancer Care's petition on its website.When I wrote a blog post in June titled "There's more to cancer than obesity and lifestyle choices", I received a message from Ismena, thanking me for writing what so many of the young cancer sufferers must be thinking. They are far too young for it to be a "lifestyle" disease - they have not had time to make bad lifestyle choices. She updated me on her cancer and told me that she had reached the point in her life when there was no more treatment possible and so had to "make the most of what life has to offer". With her exceptional attitude, she was doing just that on the Amalfi coast.Ismena has left behind a wealth of writing and campaigning work and her insight into living with secondary cancer would be very useful to the medical profession. Her blog - abitofaboob.com - is still online and her last entry for The Huffington Post was on 13th August - just a month before she died.She said, in an interview with Brogan Driscoll, that having secondary breast cancer was "Like the forgotten part of the disease. The focus is overwhelmingly centred on primary breast cancer and secondary, with end stages and dying, is largely unspoken about."Ismena raised her voice to speak about her secondary cancer. Why not share your experience and join Breast Cancer Care's "Breast Cancer Voices". Get the latest comment and analysis from the TelegraphFollow @TelegraphBlogs