A beacon of pink shining across London from Wembley's iconic arch is the emblem of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Whether or not you agree with the surfeit of frothy pink which abounds during October, it certainly concentrates the mind on what the Genesis website describes as "this terrible disease". One in eight women, and one in 1,000 men, will develop breast cancer and, during this month, hundreds of thousands of people will be collecting for, or donating money to, the charities whose work is devoted to one or other aspect of the disease.Genesis is the UK's only purpose-built Breast Cancer Prevention Centre. Probably best known for the 5-2 Diet, the charity's researchers focus on creating a future without breast cancer.Believing that breast cancer does not occur randomly but is caused by a combination of the genes with which you were born, the environment in which you live, and certain lifestyle factors.Genesis' researchers are working towards a way of predicting which women are at a higher risk of developing the disease. Once identified, these women would then be offered a number of strategies to reduce the risk, or even prevent the cancer - regular screening ("for which we require improved technologies over conventional mammography and MRI scanning"); lowering of lifestyle risk by interventions that are acceptable and effective (dietary, exercise and hormone based interventions); and switching off genetic factors (through research into drugs such as PARP inhibitors, vaccines, or antibodies that interfere with biological pathways).Pinpointing the causes of breast cancer is the aim, too, of Breakthrough Breast Cancer's Generations Study. Launched in 2004, the study will run for 40 years and has over 113,000 female participants. The Study is looking at breast cancer in men too. However, because it is much rarer in the male sex, a differently designed study was needed; this has now been running for five years. Men who have had breast cancer - plus a group of men of the same age who have not - have been asked to complete a questionnaire and give a blood sample. The study is the largest anywhere in the world into the causation of this cancer in men.Filling in the critical gaps in breast cancer research - including understanding better how preventative drugs work - Breast Cancer Campaign's aim is that by 2025 the risks of developing the disease will be more precisely predictable and up to 20 per cent of cases will be prevented. If you look at the charity's website, there is a constantly-mounting statistic, which denotes how many people are diagnosed every second the window is open. It is a shocking reality that every 20 seconds someone, somewhere in the world, will receive the life-changing news.Funded by Breast Cancer Campaign, three projects are exploring how to predict if a woman, with a high risk of developing breast cancer, would benefit from taking "chemoprevention" drugs - like tamoxifen or raloxifene (in a similar way to drugs which prevent heart attacks or strokes) - and searching for new drugs with fewer side effects, and why the drugs work for some women and not others. Professor Louise Jones - professor of breast pathology at Barts Cancer Institute - is developing a simple blood test, which will show whether or not the chemoprevention drug, being taken by a patient, is effective for that person.Working with breast cancer patients and their families, Breast Cancer Care offers support of all kinds - providing detailed information and a Help Line; bringing people together with talks, courses and its forum; and its current campaign "The Hidden Effects of Breast Cancer" deals with topics ranging from fertility to secondary/metastatic/advanced breast cancer.Wembley's pink arch launches the partnership of Breast Cancer Care and the FA. Not only will England Women's match against Germany at the Stadium on Sunday 23rd November support the charity, but the F.A. will donate £150,000 and use the match to promote the charity's "Pass It On" campaign - which, with the help of the FA, will "create a team of breast awareness champions and encourage these men and women to pass on this information to the women (and men) in their lives". Guidance will also be given on how best to support family and friends through a breast cancer experience.The FA partnership will also fund a Breast Awareness Bus, which will carry breast experts to communities where awareness of the disease is low.Signs of possible breast cancer:
A lump
Ongoing pain
Size changes or swelling
Redness, rashes or crusting in the breast, armpit or collarbone areas
Changes in the nipples - discharge or inversion
Puckering of the skin.Please check yourself and, if you have any of the above, consult your GP and ask to be referred to a breast consultant. Get the latest comment and analysis from the Telegraph Read more from our news and politics bloggersFollow @TelegraphBlogs