Of the five senses, the one that people are most afraid of losing is sight and yet, for far too many people, eye tests are not at the top of their health checklist. It is easy to become used to your vision - perhaps to a cloudy centre - and only realise how it might be improved after a visit to an optometrist.The chain of high-street opticians, Vision Express, launched its campaign - Vision. Taken Seriously - earlier this year to encourage people to take better care of their eyes and have regular eye tests. Research shows that 37 per cent of people put off having an eye test because of the cost, but I suspect that others are "in denial" - as occurs with cancer - and hope the symptoms will simply disappear on their own.Omar Hassan - Head of Professional Services and Optometry for Vision Express - told me about the new "Vision Van", which took to the streets this week, offering free eye tests to residents in areas identified as being at the greatest risk of avoidable sight loss from conditions like glaucoma and macular degeneration. Starting in London's White City, the Van then visited Liverpool, Newcastle and Gateshead, Birmingham and Norwich.Research by the RNIB informs us that almost 2 million people in the UK are living with sight loss and forecasters predict a further half a million could lose their sight by 2020. Others will be living with partial sight. Either category is the gateway for The Charles Bonnet Syndrome - a condition which I have written about before and which produces hallucinations or "visions". These can be extremely frightening for anyone who has not been warned about the condition. Too often, the sufferer says nothing because they are afraid they will be diagnosed with dementia and, indeed, people with CBS have been misdiagnosed and have found themselves in dementia units - all because neither their doctors, nor they, had ever heard of the condition.I am working with the Macular Society to raise awareness of CBS, so that members of the medical profession - together with social services and all professional carers - understand that visions or hallucinations could be Charles Bonnet Syndrome.Not everyone who loses his or her sight - partially or totally - will experience CBS, but do the optometrists at Vision Express understand the condition and, if so, do they explain it to their patients? Omar reassured me that they have all attended the national training programme and follow the published guidelines issued by The College of Ophthalmologists. If the patient described visual disturbances, he or she would be referred to the GP - with a provisional diagnosis and an explanatory letter. Not many GPs are aware of the condition and those who do recognise the name may not understand the symptoms, nor how debilitating they can be for the patient.Omar said, "If the loss of a patient's sight is not a correctable problem, we would gently warn the patient about CBS, assuring him or her that it is quite normal to see things that are not there." This is very good news and perhaps we could persuade Vision Express to help spread the word among other optometrists.Apart from eye conditions which develop with age, there are progressive degenerative conditions like Stargardts Disease - or Stargardts Macular Dystrophy - in which central vision is lost. Matt Harrison is only 42 and was diagnosed with this condition ten years ago. Usually found in children and young adults, Matt has a late onset atypical version - and, for six years, has suffered from CBS too.Having listened to descriptions of "visions" from my mother - some very frightening, some annoying and some which took over her whole room - and read the experiences of people who follow my blog, I wondered what images inhabit Matt's life?Matt explained that the majority of his visions were a mixture of reality and hallucination. An Indian tapestry print - which he had on his wall at university - is his most common vision. He rarely sees people but dancing cartoon characters in vivid red and green; 2 Tibetan monks sitting down and sharing a joke - "with wonderful looks on their faces"; or dogs sitting by the fireplace.We must use our voices to raise awareness of this condition, so sufferers are not afraid to admit what is happening to them; the medical and caring professions will all be educated to diagnose the condition; and research - like that being done by Dr. Dominic ffytche - will produce a greater understanding of CBS and, with that, new coping strategies.Next time you have an eye test, please ask your optometrist if he/she knows about CBS - and email me with the answer on judith.potts@telegraph.co.ukFor more information please log on to this website.