Blame the miners. Those hard-hatted, , big-truck driving blokes (mostly).Looking deep into the Reserve Bank board's meeting, you can see Glenn Stevens, the bank's governor as a juggler. In one hand he's got a bunch of fly-in, fly-out miners who are relishing being in demand and cashed up.In Stevens' other hand is the rest of the Australian economy, where households are feeling under pressure. The retail sector, despite a  is still wincing from shoppers keeping their wallets closed, coupled with the effects of consumers turning online to buy, often from overseas. Exporters are also suffering from a dollar riding high upon the waves.There's been plenty of talk recently of rate cuts, and the anticipation of such a blessing for mortgage holders has been fuelled by lenders cutting their fixed interest rates, often a sure sign that variable rates are headed down too. Not that rate cuts are really a blessing as they obviously signal a suffering economy in need of a boost.But despite all the doom and gloom and talk of the Australian economy doing poorly, there is one stand-out fact. We're not doing quite as badly as we think, as we heard from the Reserve Bank when it announced it would keep rates on hold.In a written statement, the board noted: "The prices for key Australian 										commodities have remained very high thus far, with growth in China continuing to 										look solid. As a result, Australia's terms of trade are now at very high levels 										and national income has been growing strongly."Investment in the resources sector 										is picking up very strongly and some related service sectors are enjoying better 										than average conditions. In other sectors, cautious behaviour by households and 										the high level of the exchange rate are having a noticeable dampening effect."Overall, the near-term growth outlook continues to look somewhat 										weaker than was expected a few months ago. Beyond the near term, growth is still 										likely to be at trend or higher, unless the world economic outlook continues to deteriorate."Notwithstanding a  we're still near full employment. And there remains the promise of strong profits to flow from the mining sector. From a global perspective, we're well ahead of the pack.Yes, households are feeling the pressure of increasing costs - in particular utilities such as electricity, gas and water, and in the longer-term petrol (although that's dipped recently).And as anyone with a penchant for bananas will tell you, we've also been hammered by increasing food prices as a result of earlier cyclones and flooding. But thankfully, the cost of fruit and vegies is now coming down a little.There was certainly great excitement at our Fathers Day barbecue on Sunday that the price of bananas had reached a stunning $8 a kilo - or $10 at another store - with the lure of further falls to come.Of course, it's not just bananas, but other fresh food too. That was a major factor driving the TD Securities-Melbourne Institute's monthly inflation gauge, released on Monday, to .It's also undeniable the housing sector has slowed - and may continue to do so. However,  in the spring season could help to ease the supply levels we've seen gradually building in many areas, meaning buyers - while still feeling confident that they're in the driving seat - will have fewer properties to choose from.In talking down the economy, we can't ignore the fact that Australians are managing to lift their  - we are now saving the most we have in years. In fact, we've gone from spending more than we were earning (not a good long-term position) to saving a good chunk of That just goes to show it's not that many of us don't have the money, just that we prefer not to spend it.There are individuals out there hurting - for example, retail and service workers who've had their hours cut back, or seen their work evaporate. And employees of exporters, like some of our big steel companies, who have But Glenn Stevens has the job of performing the monthly act of juggling the competing influences that feed into the direction of interest rates.From the board's perspective, the silver lining that mining is giving to other sectors of the gloomy economy might just be bright enough to keep Reserve Bank feeling positive about where the economy is heading for the rest of the year. And that means, if you're hoping for a rate cut anytime soon, the broad-shouldered blokes in the hard hats might just be holding up the economy a little too well for the Reserve Bank to loosen its stance in the near future.