Lots of breaking news to debate, but I can't let another day pass without sharing my thoughts on Sunday's Points cover story, "Is Air Conditioning Making Us Weak?" Much chatter in the comments section and letters submissions about "what can a Boston writer know about heat?" and "who is he to tell us that we don't need air conditioning?" This particular letter to the editor summarizes a lot of the blow-back to the piece by Leon Neyfakh. (Poor guy, his piece is getting all this heat — and it's not his fault that we decided to republish it in our newspaper.)Everyone is too busy "harrumphing" to appreciate what I found so wonderful about the essay — its reminder (to at least some of us over the age of 45) that we used to live WITHOUT air-conditioning. In Texas. In the middle of the summer. And it was just fine.Neyfakh's descriptions of the South's "sleeping porch" took me back to the late sixties-early seventies summers when my brother and I were herded into the passel of "Buford and Barclay" cousins who — along with assorted parents and grandparents — spent several weeks at "Great-Grandma Barclay's" house in Granger, Texas.The Neyfakh essay reminded me that there wasn't a wisp of AC in that old frame house. Nothing more than a fan or two. But there was a giant sleeping porch — with eight single beds and windows along two sides. Nowadays, I think 78 degrees is too hot to sleep under a single sheet — how did I and all the family members do it year in and year out? I guess because we had to. But I don't recall being the least bit uncomfortable.Afternoons were spent, as Neyfakh described, taking a (forced) nap then lounging on the big front porch or in inflatable swimming pools — unless we got real lucky and persuaded someone to take us to the public pool in Taylor. Better yet, a visit to the "ice house" for a block of frozen delight. Then we'd sit in the long wide "hallway" that ran through the center of the house and read. And there was always the occasional road trip to Galveston or San Marcos — both in pursuit of cool water. In other words: We adapted.Likewise, my parents' first home, where I lived until age 8, didn't have but one AC window unit for much of our time there. When we moved into a house with "central air," I thought I was in high cotton. One of my grandparents had only a water-cooled fan at one end of the house in Bartlett, Texas. That side of the family, the Grigsbys, thought nothing — adults included — of picnicking in Central Texas in the middle of summer. A whole lot easier than picking cotton in the heat, which many of my Grigsby aunts and uncles did as youngsters and teens.I'm not advocating returning 24-7 to what Neyfakh suggests:A lot would have to change. We'd wake up earlier, and nap in the middle of the day to make up for it. We'd ride bikes and scooters everywhere, and swimming would replace running as the preferred form of exercise. Maybe we'd see the return of porch culture — of screened-in card games and flowing iced tea. After a while we'd get used to it, just like we got used to the artificial indoor chill we take for granted now. Who knows — eventually we might even come to like it.And I'm not saying we'd come to like it. But it's not nearly as far-fetched an idea as people are making it out to be. (And let's not forget that Boston experienced some near-Texas-sized hot weather a month or so ago.)

Follow @SharonFGrigsby
