Two of the latest, high-profile decisions by Nice both impact negatively on patients - in England - whose cancer has metastised and who are looking at the end of their lives. Now there will be no chance for those lives to be prolonged or chemotherapy postponed. Men with prostate cancer are denied the drug Abiraterone before chemotherapy - despite its proven success - and Kadcyla has been rejected for HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer patients. The reason on both counts is cost-effectiveness.How, I wonder, does that square with the new title of the organisation, which, last year, removed the word "clinical" and replaced it with "care". The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence? Where does the "care" part come into the equation? As an organisation so conscious of cost, perhaps it might tell us just how expensive was the re-branding exercise?Care surely means exactly what it says - and, in this case, it should be care for the patients. In February 2012, when Nice first refused to recommend Abiraterone, I wrote a blog post questioning the decision and pointing out that the drug was developed by Cancer Research UK - to which millions of people donate in the hope that CRUK will produce drugs to save or lengthen lives. Now it appears that those very people are being denied the drug which their donations helped to develop. This cannot be right, and we can but hope that it will not deter people from donating to the cancer research charities.Abiraterone was saved two years ago because of public outrage at Nice's decision - and Nice had to do a U-turn. After the current decision, Prof Peter Johnson from Cancer Research UK said "Nice has previously agreed that Abiraterone is an effective and cost-effective drug for men with prostate cancer who have already had chemotherapy, and there is no reason for it to be any less effective before the chemotherapy - if anything, the reverse."An extra six months of life may seem very little to Nice but it allows the patient the time to say goodbye, to put affairs in order, or perhaps attend a family event. For women with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, not only does Kadcyla work effectively, but it does so with very few side effects, allowing women a better quality of life in their final months - something which even Nice acknowledged. "The drug has the potential to give patients a valuable extension of life and has more manageable side effects than other treatments." Yet it was rejected.Yes, I understand completely that Nice has a set of hard realities to consider and, if Kadcyla was a totally new drug and unused anywhere else in the world, it would be easier to understand Nice's reticence - but this drug is used with great success in Europe. Does this mean that Europe's "set of hard realities" is somehow different to those in the UK? Why is the priority of human life greater in Europe than in the UK?The Cancer Drugs Fund - to which patients can apply for drugs that Nice has rejected - will close in 2016. Presumably, David Cameron set up the Fund because he understood how important it is for cancer patients to have the most up-to-date medication - but the Fund cannot hope to keep up with the requests for all the drugs rejected by Nice. Eight secondary breast cancer drugs - including Avastin twice - have now been rejected.While I would hope that the pharmaceutical companies will be able to lower their prices, we must not forget that a drug like Kadcyla has taken 30 years' research - with the obvious cost involved. It is imperative that discussions continue and Nice listens to the experience and opinions of patients too. There are examples of men who have found that Abiraterone has extended their lives by 5 years, not five months. James Jopling from Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Scotland, said "There is still hope for patients in Scotland. Kadcyla will be one of the first drugs to be assessed under a new system, which places greater emphasis on the voice of patients." Could NICE adopt that system too?Is VAT still payable on outpatient drugs? If so, surely that is immoral.Most patients have paid national insurance all their working lives - plus donating to cancer research charities - but, when they need to request something back, Nice steps in and plays God. After working for 30 years, the amount a person has paid into the NI kitty - and donated to research - must, surely, entitle him or her to a drug which extends or improves the end of life. The NHS may be "free at the point of delivery" but it is funded by the majority of us.Nice's rejection of these drugs brings "end of life" medicines firmly into the "end of life" debate. Get the latest comment and analysis from the Telegraph Read more from our news and politics bloggersFollow @TelegraphBlogs