Tamoxifen is, not only a well-proven drug, but a cheap one (7p per day). NICE has urged GPs to offer Tamoxifen or Raloxifene to an estimated 488,000 women over the age of 35, whose family history gives them more than a 17pc risk of developing breast cancer. By taking the drug as a preventative measure, their risk is cut by 40pc - and could save many of these patients the trauma of surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. It would also save the NHS millions of pounds.A year has passed since NICE agreed to Tamoxifen being used in this way, but the Medicine and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency has yet to license the drug. Consequently, GPs - now all too aware of our litigious society - are very reluctant to prescribe an unlicensed medication.Come on MHPRA - get on with it. Hurry too, with a license for bisphosphonates (30p per day) which prevent breast cancer spreading to the bones. As Mia Rosenblatt, from Breast Cancer Campaign, said "It is incomprehensible that there are low-cost, effective treatments out there not available due to red tape."However, the side effects associated with the drug are making some patients reluctant to start taking a daily dose and many find it impossible to finish the course. The side effects of the drug should not be underestimated. They can be very difficult and distressing - but not for everyone. Some people sail through with just the occasional hot flush to remind them, although, for others, the listed side effects are just the start - but there is good news in the pipeline on that score.In my blog post at the beginning of 2013 - 4th January - I mentioned, among other developments, a Tamoxifen gel, which produced many fewer side effects than the tablet form of the drug. Professor Seema Khan from Chicago's Northwestern University has been researching this gel and now the results have been published in the journal, Clinical Cancer Research.The gel was given to pre and post-menopausal women who fell into one particular category of breast cancer - oestrogen positive ductal carcinoma in situ.Professor Khan said: "A gel delivered through the breast skin is only for indications where you do not need systemic circulating drug levels, so this would not apply to the great majority of women who are being treated for invasive breast cancer."However, for women at high risk for breast cancer or who have been diagnosed with noninvasive breast cancer who need treatment only to the breast, applying a gel to the breast skin would treat the breast but avoid harm to the rest of the body. This might encourage more women to adhere to preventive therapy."Dr Caroline Dalton from Breakthrough Breast Cancer welcomed the results and said "The study had shown women who used the gel had similar levels of Tamoxifen in the breast tissue as those who took the tablet form", but lower levels of the drug in the patients' blood - "which could lead to fewer side effects". However, she stressed that more research was needed before bringing the gel into use - but it "could be an exciting development for breast cancer prevention in those at higher risk in the future." Anything which can lessen the side effects and allow more patients to take the drug, will be a huge blessing.Having finished my five years on Tamoxifen, I was somewhat alarmed by the results of research from the Tulane School of Medicine in New Orleans. Dr Steven Hill has been looking at how Tamoxifen kills cancer cells and has concluded that - for Tamoxifen to work properly - patients should sleep in a totally dark room. It seems that higher levels of the hormone, Melatonin - which is produced by the pineal gland - occur at night. The high level of the hormone is needed to put breast cancer cells to sleep, at which time the growth mechanisms are turned off, thus allowing Tamoxifen to kill the cells. Dr Hill explained that "if there is light - even something as small as a light from a cell phone or computer - the melatonin level is disrupted and the cells wake up." Tamoxifen can then not do its work.D. Hill stressed that the answer is not to take Melatonin supplements because "this has the potential to disrupt the natural sleep-wake cycle of the patient and will interfere with the body's natural capacity to produce the hormone."He added that "It is best to take Tamoxifen at night and make sure you have 8 hours of sleep (if you have insomnia and wake during the night, try to avoid turning on the light)."My worry is that I am not happy in the dark and have never slept with blackout curtains. Where, I wonder, does that leave the effectiveness of my five years' worth of Tamoxifen? Simon and Garfunkel's lyrics - "Hello darkness, my old friend" - do not apply to me. Get the latest comment and analysis from the Telegraph Read more from our news and politics bloggersFollow @TelegraphBlogs