Watching Kristen Hallenga's film on the BBC a couple of weeks ago, I was struck, yet again, at how young she is - not to mention how young she was when she was diagnosed with breast cancer; just 23. Her story seems to be reflected in the experiences of many young people, whose cancer is diagnosed only after a struggle with the GP - and, consequently, at a late stage. Adult cancers are being found in younger people.It took Kristen several attempts over two years to persuade various doctors to take her seriously and not dismiss the symptoms as "hormonal", which means that - as Kristen says - "I have stage 4 cancer. There is no stage 5". By the time the diagnosis was made, Kristen's cancer was "avocado-sized".Within a year of diagnosis, Kristen and her twin sister, Maren, had founded "CoppaFeel" - with the aims of communicating to young men and women the importance of regularly checking their breasts; of educating them to recognise the symptoms of breast cancer and giving them the confidence to keep pestering the GP if something untoward appears. This week Coppafeel's new campaign "Rethink Cancer" is launched, with the hope that cancer education can be integrated into the curriculum.For Olivia Buckland - who was diagnosed with Nodular Schlerosing Hodgkin's Lymphoma last year, aged 19 - it was a similar story. Olivia was studying Sociology and Education at Cardiff University and enjoying a busy life, which included netball and rowing - the latter to the high standard of rowing in the Women's Eights' Head of the River Race. Finding a "walnut-sized lump nestling in my collar bone" prompted Olivia to visit her local GP in Cardiff - only to be told to "stop being a hypochondriac".Three months later, on a birthday weekend at home, the lump "prompted an immediate visit to the family GP, who sent me to the hospital for a blood test straight away." Olivia completed the rowing race but was then faced with the news that there was "a large mass sitting snugly in my right mediastinum, pretty much as close to the heart as you can get."Surgery and six months of chemotherapy followed but the cancer returned in April of this year, requiring more surgery and "adult" chemo this time. As I write this, Olivia is in the middle of 3 ICE (ifosfamide, carboplatin and etoposide) chemo treatments - which necessitate the extremely painful insertion of a central line (tube), which goes under the skin of the chest and into a vein.Olivia wrote to me, describing graphically that experience and, yet, through all of the "horrors", Olivia - like other young cancer patients - finds an inner strength. Of her most recent experience, Olivia says "There is no dignity in being sick. And then it hit me, when it comes to being faced with the choice of life or death, I think we humans are wired to choose the former and so we get on with it" - and "get on with it" they do.Olivia writes a blog - which began as a way of updating her family and friends, all of whom are concerned but often "find it hard to empathise or understand what's going on and what treatment entails" - but now an emotional link is added and when she feels lonely and isolated, the blog has "evolved to be something therapeutic". Through the power of the internet, others travelling the same road connect with Olivia, experiences are shared and a mutual support system is formed. Olivia's message is "Rage On. Everything gets better."Other young people find their own way through - Laura Cannon, diagnosed with DCIS stage 2, grade 3 breast cancer at the age of 22 - named her lump "Kenneth"! She, too, writes a blog because she "wants to show that fighting the Big C doesn't have to be all doom and gloom" - which is pretty extraordinary considering she has had a double mastectomy, 6 sessions of chemotherapy and a year of Herceptin treatment. Ryan Bartlett progressed through his treatment for testicular cancer when he was 24 and then formed a charity, "Lease of Life" to "promote exercise and sport to children and young adults dealing with cancer."The website of The Teenage Cancer Trust shows a whole series of young, smiling faces - all of whom have or have had cancer - led, of course, by Stephen Sutton, the amazing young man, diagnosed at 15 with carcinoma of the colon and rectum, but who has left behind a huge personal and financial legacy. Stephen, too, discussed how doctors missed his cancer for six months.None of these young people are out to shower blame on their GPs but, instead, want to encourage cancer education from an early age.Olivia is detailing every minute of her cancer "journey" and, for those following in her footsteps, it might be harrowing reading but it is an honest account of what might happen - and to be forewarned is to be forearmed. These young people - four of just many - are setting a very exacting example.For "Lease of Life Cancer Support" please look on Facebook. Get the latest comment and analysis from the Telegraph Read more from our news and politics bloggersFollow @TelegraphBlogs 