Despite many leaps forward in treatment options, delays in diagnosis of many forms of cancer in the UK result in the disease not being treated before it becomes advanced. Consequently, the UK and Ireland have the lowest survival rates in Europe - particularly for older patients. In Scotland, Dr. Hilary Dobson (Chair of the National Cancer Quality Steering Group) said "Scottish women are more likely to die within 12 months of discovering they have breast cancer, than their European counterparts. The UK has been tarnished with having poor survival rates from cancer in general."In that case, why is it that when a simple solution is staring the NHS, the Government and some of the large Cancer Charities in the face, it is consistently ignored? Why not use proven "complex pattern recognition bio sensors" - more commonly known as dogs?Yesterday, I stood among a large group of people in a room in the House of Lords. I watched their faces and heard their astonished murmurings as the Medical Detection Dogs were put through their paces. I have seen - and written about - these amazing dogs but, for some of the assembled audience, this was the first time they had witnessed just how quickly and correctly a dog's nose can determine a positive cancer sample.Dr. Claire Guest, CEO of Medical Detection Dogs (whose Patron is HRH The Duchess of Cornwall), has been training dogs in the detection of human disease through scent since 2002. She was the Training Director for the first programme in the world to train dogs to identify cancer by odour - the results of this study were published in The British Medical Journal in 2004 - and she is a consultant for a number of similar programmes all over the world. Clearly, these are people and publications who are taking her results very seriously.Before "showcasing" the dogs, Claire explained to us that every illness has a "scent" - the smell of gangrene in a wound is probably the best known, for example - and the dogs are trained to differentiate between the odour of other illnesses and that of cancer. When cancer is present, "volatile organic compounds" diffuse into the bloodstream and are then excreted through exhaling or urinating. Some of these VOC's are being investigated as possible biomarkers for various types of cancers, including lung, breast and cancers of the head and neck. These dogs can detect VOC's in a concentration of 0.001 parts per million. This would seem to me to beat a shark detecting a drop of blood in 25 gallons of water - a mere 1 part per million. Claire also explained that it does not stop there. Once trained, dogs continue to up-the-ante until the second figure becomes a trillion.The dogs are about to undertake two new programmes of research into detecting early cancers - breast from breath samples and prostate from urine samples. The latter will be of enormous interest to men; prostate cancer is set to replace breast cancer at the top of the diagnosis list. With no X-ray screening available (i.e. nothing like a mammogram for the prostate) and a PSA test which is so unreliable that 3 out of 4 men have false positive results - which mean unnecessary, invasive and painful needle tests must be conducted (sometimes requiring up to 36 needles) - many men feel, understandably, that this exclusively male cancer has been forgotten.The dogs' record in detecting prostate cancer is over 90 per cent accurate - far and away better than the PSA test, in which some GPs have so little faith that they will not even use it.We watched as the dogs showed us how the PSA test could be consigned to history. Given tiny samples (a few drops) of urine, the dogs took just a few seconds to make a decision and were correct every time. Many urine samples tell a complex story - other illnesses may be present - but the dogs identified purely the particular cancer for which they have been trained. Considering a Reception at the House of Lords could hardly be described as a clinical, sterile environment - the air must have been full of all sorts of interesting smells - the dogs doubly proved their ability.Dogs from this charity also work as Alert Dogs, using their heightened olfactory senses to warn their owners that the time is right to administer medication - thus saving the NHS huge sums in paramedic and hospital hours - and allowing adults and children to live normal lives, without the ever-present fear of some sort of attack rendering them unconscious or back in hospital.There is no reason why dogs could not be used to detect all forms of cancer. At some distant time in the future, there might be the possibility of an electronic nose but, until then, why not make use of this extraordinary tool given to us by nature? As the younger generation say, it is surely a "no-brainer".- Read the Telegraph's biggest names on the issues of the day- Get the latest from our news and politics bloggersFollow @TelegraphBlogs