The side effects caused by cancer treatments can have an extremely debilitating effect on the patient - adverse skin reactions, a sore mouth and problems with finger and toenails are the most common. Usually these are manageable but, sometimes, the cancer treatment has to be halted while infections in these areas are treated.The Beatson Unit in Glasgow - which is one of the biggest cancer centres in the UK - is about to begin a study on nail toxicity in breast cancer patients. They see it as a significantly under-reported and unanticipated problem that affects the quality of life for many patients. Most of the serious problems with nails - inflammation, infection, separation and pain - are produced by the chemotherapy drugs and, occasionally by radiotherapy, but I wonder if my irritating nail problems (two nails which now grow already split) are due to Tamoxifen?There is a product called OnicoLife (drops and gel) - distributed in the UK by Mosaic Pharma - which is proving an enormous help to those patients with severe nail problems. This product will be part of the Glasgow study but can already be bought from the Mosaic Pharma website, on which there is a full explanation of the reasons why the nails become affected and tips for looking after them during treatment. The drops and gel can be used to help prevent nail problems or to treat those which have already developed.Whilst it is now accepted that a healthy, balanced (and organic if possible) diet plays a huge part in keeping cancer at bay, unnecessary chemicals and preservatives are still found in skin products like soap, shampoo, deodorant or body lotion. Parabens (which are used to prevent the growth of yeasts, moulds and bacteria) and other chemical additives may give the product a longer shelf life and keep the price of the product low, but they can also result in seriously negative effects on the skin and body. Widely used too as preservatives in food and pharmaceutical products, Parabens mimic oestrogen and have been clearly identified in breast tumours - in fact, researchers from Reading University found that "virtually all - 99 per cent - of the tissue samples collected from women participating in the study contained at least one Paraben, and 60 per cent of the samples contained no less than five Parabens." Although there is no official line on whether or not they contributing to breast cancer, surely they cannot be doing us any good?On the lookout for products which are totally Paraben, preservative and talc-free, I came across the following. They are all organically produced and gentle enough for use by patients who have undergone cancer treatment. None have been tested on animals or use ingredients that have been tested in this way.The Bakewell Soap Company produces various delicious-smelling soaps and balms for lips, eyes, feet, hands and body. Several are particularly suitable for skin which has suffered from radiotherapy. Combinations of goats' milk, organic honey and beeswax - or rhubarb root (believed to alleviate the symptoms of skin sores), raspberry and coconut or the ubiquitous aloe vera juice with champa and honeysuckle. The company's website says "These are hand cut soaps, with no unknown or undesirable ingredients. Our products are kind to the skin and therapeutic, using only organically-produced precious oils, plant extracts and botanicals."When I began my six weeks of radiotherapy, the hospital gave me a wonderful mixture of aloe vera and essential oils, which I applied to the affected skin three or four times a day (after each radiotherapy session). The mixture worked like a charm. Emailers have told me that not all hospitals offer this - or any other - soothing preparation and some have been known to suggest Aqueous cream. This is definitely not to be recommended as it can aggravate the skin, as can any product containing chemicals.There are two French cosmetic companies which produce organic products. UNE/Naturisimo's guarantee is that "all synthetic fragrances, artificial colourings, parabens, silicones and glycols are forbidden" and ZAO's website states that they use "no ingredients from the petrochemical industry, no preservatives and no talc". The latter produces its products in re-fellable bamboo packaging.Then there is the art of Aromatherapy. Barbara Baldwin, the founder of Physic Aromatherapy, devised her post-cancer blends while experiencing her own second "brush" with cancer, during which she discovered just how "little there is in the way of Chemotherapy or Radiotherapy aftercare in the UK". With the support and enthusiasm of her Cancer Care Team spurring her on, Barbara formulated the first Physic Aromatherapy blend using organic, therapeutic-grade oils and blending by hand. She now offers Post Radiotherapy, Chemotherapy Aftercare and Lymphoedema blends - but please note, if you are taking Tamoxifen or any other medically prescribed drugs steer clear of St. John's Wort - which is part of the Chemotherapy Aftercare blend.For organically produced shampoos and conditioners which are paraben-free, Essentially Yours and Earth Friendly Baby (which is about to launch its website in the UK) are both worth a look. These baby products are particularly suitable for post-cancer treatment, delicate skin.After an online consultation, Jennifer Young - who is an associate member of the Royal Society of Medicine, an experienced microbiologist and a practising Nutritional Therapist - will create tailor-made skin care for you, taking in all your individual needs and preferences and matching them to particular tried and tested ingredients - which are 100% natural and organic.I am not making any particular recommendations but these types of products are extremely beneficial and it is worth taking time to research the best for you.
If you have found any products which you can recommend; if you have developed nail problems due to cancer treatment; or if you were given a preparation to use during radiotherapy - which was particularly good or which caused its own problems, please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.ukAs it says on The Eleanor Rose Foundation's website, "Cancer is both a huge physical and mental challenge" and, as I wrote on my last blog post, patients can find themselves facing financial hardship at just the time when there is the need for pure products to calm sensitive or damaged skin, which, in turn, might help to raise the spirits but - because the products contain only pure ingredients - they are more expensive than their off-the-shelf counterparts.Perhaps, when "Ellie's Friends" is up and running, companies - such as those I have mentioned, who are producing organic products - might think of offering them to cancer patients at a reduced cost. Men and women could both reap the benefit.