Angelina Jolie has made two brave decisions. The first was to have a preventive double mastectomy because, as a carrier of a faulty BRAC1 gene, she was given an 87 per cent chance of developing breast cancer and a 50 per cent chance of developing ovarian cancer. The second was to write an article for The New York Times, describing in detail the procedure she has undergone. By doing this, she hopes to encourage other women with a family history of breast or ovarian cancer to "seek out the information and medical experts who can help you through this aspect of your life, and to make your own informed choices".Angelina continues by saying that "the cost of testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2 in the United States is $3,000". This amount of money must be beyond the reach of many people. Here, in the UK, The NHS offers the test to those women who have a strong family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer. We all carry genes called BRCA1, BRCA2, TP53 or PTEN but it is only if there is a fault or mutation in one of them that the risk of breast cancer becomes so high.If you carry a faulty gene it does not necessarily mean you will develop breast cancer, just that you are at greater risk. Professor Gareth Evans, consultant medical geneticist at St. Mary's Hospital in Manchester says: "Mutations in the high-risk genes affect one in 500 people - or fewer. Having a faulty high-risk gene linked to breast cancer is not common."Professor Evans is one of three professors - the others being Nigel Bundred (professor of surgery) and Tony Howell (the UK's first professor of cancer prevention) - who head the Nightingale Centre and Genesis Prevention Centre on the complex of the University Hospital of South Manchester at Wythenshawe. Opened in 2007 - with design input from breast cancer patients and staff - this is Europe's first purpose-built breast cancer prevention centre. Fifty thousand patients from the Greater Manchester area are screened each year and there are 10,000 families in the Family History Clinic.Professors Howell, Evans and Bundred research breast cancer prevention from many different angles. With the help of their Genesis research team and a panel of international advisers, their research includes investigations into diet and lifestyle as triggers of the disease, dietary prevention, faulty genes that can cause cancer, cancer prevention drugs, pre-cancer changes, methods of early detection and related diseases like ovarian cancer.There is training for the breast specialists of the future in all breast cancer disciplines; a risk assessment for women with a family history who are worried about developing breast cancer; and a family history clinic, which offers support, care and advice.Following on from my last blog post about exercise, I was interested to see that a member of the team is a research dietitian working on diet and exercise strategies to prevent breast cancer. Dr. Michelle Harvie - in a video on Genesis's website - explains that there is "really strong evidence that, by eating a Mediterranean diet full of high fibre, vegetables and fruit - which helps to maintain weight - the risk of developing breast cancer is reduced by 40 per cent". She goes on to say that "three to four hours of exercise every week will reduce the risk by 20-30 per cent". This may be to do with maintaining a healthy weight but there is also proof that exercise has a positive effect on body hormone levels.Chairman of Genesis's General Advisory Board is Lester Barr - consultant surgeon at the University Hospital of South Manchester - who has recently conducted research into the link between environmental chemicals and breast cancer. Among the board members is Soujanye Gadde, who is a consultant radiologist and an expert in the non-surgical breast biopsy technique called "mammotome", which takes the tiniest amount of tissue so no sutures are needed - I think we could do with more use of that technique - and Richard Johnson, who is a consultant breast and oncoplastic surgeon who specialises in breast reconstruction. He is an expert in the technique of lipo-modelling or "fat transfer" for women who have had breast surgery.Genesis's website carries a page called Understanding Risk, with helpful videos and sections titled "calculate your lifetime risk", "relative risk", "absolute risk" and "personalised risk". There is a detailed explanation of each of the points you should consider on the website.The recent trial to see whether or not Tamoxifen could or should be used as a preventive measure - which will now be implemented - was partially funded by Genesis. Professor Tony Howell is the chief investigator of the IBIS-II prevention study, which is working to determine if Anastrozole (Arimidex) can also help to prevent breast cancer in women with a high risk of developing the disease. Then there is the Tommy trial of a new form of mammography which produces 3D images and may lead to diagnosis of very small breast cancers and detection of early pre-cancer changes. Single nucleotide polymorphisms are gene fragments carried by many women. Genesis's researchers wonder whether or not it may be that all women who develop breast cancer do so because they carry at least one of these SNP's. Therefore - combining a gene test with a study of lifestyle factors and bio-markers (like breast density) - it may be possible to predict which women out of a group of 10 will develop the disease.Genesis is the only UK charity entirely dedicated to the prevention of breast cancer and is determined to reduce today's figure of one in 10 women who will develop breast cancer to none in 10 - thereby creating a future without the disease. (I am assuming that for every time the words "woman/women" are used, Genesis also means "man/men".)Genesis' website quotes Thomas Adams, the 17th century Physician, who said "Prevention is better than healing because it saves the labour of being sick."www.genesis.org.uk