More than 10,000 people have signed up for the chance to get a better  through a group-buying experiment being run by consumer group Choice.The idea was to bring a mass of people together and then go to lenders seeking a better mortgage deal for each. Choice says the initiative is a world-first.The consumer advocate had set out to register 1000 participants over the two weeks leading up to August 14. But within hours of opening the registrations on Sunday thousands of people signed up.While Choice spokesman Christopher Zinn says the group is not giving a "running tally", he says the number of sign ups is already "well more than 10,000".There is no limit to the number of people who can register with the Choice Big Bank Switch. Zinn predicts that the more consumers who register, the better the special offers will get.   "We've done preliminary work and talked to financial institutions and we believe that there will be enough institutions to play ball," says Zinn. "We believe that we can source a group discount."Choice is keeping its options open as to the type of deals it might secure but says any they put forward will have to be better than what already exist in  the market.Will the lenders be prepared to take part?Leanne Cutcher, a senior lecturer in work and organisational studies at the University of Sydney, who focused her PhD on the role of the customer in Australian retail banking, suggests major lenders may well have to deal or risk damaging their reputations with consumers.And if one major lender moves, it is likely the others will follow suit, says Cutcher. How many people will actually switch their mortgages and whether it will work, remains to be seen. By signing up, consumers aren't actually agreeing to change lenders, they are merely agreeing to hear about the special mortgage offers created.It is up to individual mortgage holders to choose if any of the offers are right for them.   The message to lenders is loud and clear that mums and dads want to get their voices heard, and are willing to switch together, says Zinn.  Just a few weeks ago on this blog we were discussing the value  could get just from speaking to their bank.    on the topic has an interesting response from a reader: "I recently started negotiating my own big switch. With the help of a mortgage broker I found out what rate I would get if I combined my loans with those of my brother and father."I spoke with my personal banking manager and wanted a better deal for myself and my brother and father or we would leave. Combined we had about $2 million in loans and we got a 0.95 discount. We were happy with this and maintained our relationship with the bank, even though we could have saved at least a further 10 points with another of the big 4."So the message is, whether you go with something such as the Choice experiment, or you head out to negotiate  on your own, there are deals out there to be had. You just have to ask.