There are many suggestions as to how to "fight" breast cancer. This week I read a piece which suggested that by drinking two cups of coffee a day - as well as taking the oestrogen-blocking drug, tamoxifen - the chance of a relapse was halved. On closer examination, the piece revealed a research project by the Lund University in Sweden, which looked at 600 female breast cancer patients and studied them over five years. The number who drank coffee and took tamoxifen had half the rate of cancer recurrence compared to those who drank no coffee. The research team believe that the cancer-fighting effects of tamoxifen are boosted by coffee.Tamoxifen has been so much part of my life over the last five years and, with the prospect of an end to my daily tablet in sight, I have begun to notice story after story about the drug.Research done by ICI (Zeneca) in the 1950s led the way to our current drug, tamoxifen. First prescribed in 1969, the drug was called Nolvadex D and, before the end of its patent - five years ago, which was followed by the upsurge in generic types of the drug - Nolvadex gave me a few months free of side effects. Nolvadex's successors have supplied me with side effects in abundance - but I have been determined to continue with the drug and will reach my five year mark in July.There is little doubt that the drug has saved the lives of millions of women and, recently, has been the subject of much discussion since Nice issued its draft guidelines which recommended that drug treatment could be given to reduce the risk of breast cancer in women with a significant family history of the disease. Taking a Serm (Selective oestrogen receptor modulators) - i.e. tamoxifen, raloxifene, arzoxifene and lasofoxifene - would be an alternative to risk-reducing surgery. The result of trials published this week - Online First in The Lancet - support Nice's decision. The analysis of nine trials found that, of the 83,399 women who were tracked for 65 months, those taking Serms were 38 per cent less likely to develop breast cancer than those given the placebo.Professor Jack Cusick - who led the Cancer Research UK funded research - said: "Despite their effectiveness, many women have opted not to take SERMs because of concerns about toxic effects. Our longer-term findings clearly show that the benefit-harm balance is now more favourable than previously calculated for short-term follow up. The benefits of these drugs continue well after treatment has stopped, whilst most of the side effects do not."Nice's final guidelines will be announced in June.In another move, tamoxifen - which is prescribed to women with oestrogen receptive breast cancer for five years after treatment - is now to be offered for ten years. As the drug is out of patent, the cost is no longer an issue. I wonder how many women will opt for ten years? The side effects can be extremely difficult to tolerate and range from hot flushes and night sweats to painful joints, a risk of deep vein thrombosis, skin problems and eye disorders. I have spoken to many people who have stopped taking the drug long before the five years is up, simply because it had become impossible to tolerate the side effects - and yet, others tell me they have never experienced a single problem. The luck of the draw, I suppose.Dr Jennifer Richer from the University of Colorado has discovered that three quarters of breast cancers possess androgen as well as oestrogen receptors - which means that a tumour's growth may be fuelled by a male hormone like testosterone.The treatment already used for prostate cancer - called anti-androgen therapy - might be the way forward for patients who relapse while taking tamoxifen. Perhaps, eventually, the therapies would be taken in tandem?Dr Emma Smith from Cancer Research UK said "It is early days for this research but there is growing interest in the androgen receptor's role in breast cancer, as a potential new route to tackle the disease".At the moment there is no way to assess which patients are more likely to respond to tamoxifen. However, in Sweden, Professor Per Hall - from the Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics at the Karolinska Institute - is suggesting that mammograms should be used to test a patient's response to the drug. He says this could be done at an early stage of treatment and would measure changes in breast density. In his trials of 1,000 women, he has seen that women who had a 20 per cent or more reduction in breast density during tamoxifen treatment, had a 50 per cent lower risk of dying from the disease over 15 years. Professor Hall said "Measuring changes in density can be a simple and cheap means of assessing the effect of the treatment. If a patient is not responding to tamoxifen, maybe they should be given a different drug? What is needed is an accurate measurement of mammographic density - which is currently not routine."Having looked at all these potential developments, I wonder about several issues.First of all, I can hear Professor Jane Plant questioning the idea of drinking coffee at all, never mind while taking tamoxifen. The hot flushes and night sweats cause enough dehydration. Do you steer clear of tea and coffee?Secondly, I wonder if Professor Cusick's statement will be enough to reassure the women who have to make the incredibly difficult decision whether or not to have risk-reducing surgery or take tamoxifen?Thirdly, mammograms are already a controversial diagnostic tool. Would you be prepared to undergo more of these tests to determine whether or not the tamoxifen was working?Whatever your opinion, it is quite staggering just how much research into the uses of this nearly-50 year old drug is taking place. I would be fascinated to hear of your experiences with tamoxifen - good or bad. Email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk