At the Breast Cancer Campaign event last night - held at The House of Lords - I watched as Gerard Varin received the charity's Fundraiser of the Year award. In April last year, Gerard ran the equivalent of a marathon a day for a month - from his home in Derbyshire to his birthplace in Switzerland. His feat has already raised £40,000 for Breast Cancer Campaign.Gerard is obviously super fit, but looking around the 300 guests I wondered how many of us could run just one marathon - never mind one a day for a month. With my work hat on - as opposed to my blogger's hat - my fitness levels were always high because of my job as a drama and movement coach. However, when breast cancer hit me, I found I had to push myself to even walk round the park. Luckily I have two dogs who need regular exercise and I was forced - by their inbuilt clocks and their pleading eyes - to get off the sofa and take them out. There were days when the radiotherapy made exhaustion an understatement - and I can only imagine how those who have to undergo chemotherapy feel - but I am convinced that my daily dog-walking helped my physical and psychological recovery.I caught the end of an item on the BBC's Countryfile about the surge of interest in extreme sports - river-walking was the example. Parks are full of people playing football, rugby, cricket and tennis. Marathons and half marathons feature thousands of people. Bicycles seem to be everywhere. Yet all around us we see evidence of terrible obesity in the UK.Not only does the cancer drug Tamoxifen encourage weight-gain, but cancer treatment can also raise the risk of osteoporosis. Yet, exercise does not seem to be a recommendation by doctors in the UK. It has been proven that regular weight-bearing exercises are beneficial for bone health. Fellow Blogger - Verite Reily Collins - told me recently: "In some countries the moment you are put on cancer drugs, you are also sent off to exercise regularly to try and prevent osteoporosis. I went to Austria and Italy, got my insurance company to pay for exercise classes copying theirs and reduced my bone loss by 21 per cent in one year. My scans were seen by the Head Physio at the hospital I attend, who wants to set up classes."This has not happened. It would seem that there is no enthusiasm for adding exercise to the NHS budget - indeed Verite tells me that Hydro Therapy pools are closing all over the UK. Is this not very short-sighted?Dr. Anna Campbell, who works on exercise-based rehabilitation, says that after treatment "rest is not always best". Obviously, during chemotherapy, it is rarely possible to exercise at all but once the worst is over, she says: "Exercise helps prevent or reduce the loss of muscle tone and aerobic fitness that can happen during treatment. Physical activity can help alleviate some side effects of treatment and can reduce fatigue, help avoid weight gain, reduce the risk of osteoporosis and lymphoedema, improve mood by reducing anxiety and depression".Dr. Clare Stevinson from Loughborough University concurs with this and says that "When mood state is studied before and after exercise, negative feelings such as depression, tension, confusion and fatigue all drop and there is a spike in vigour and energy."Breast Cancer Care has a campaign called Best Foot Forward. Walking groups - at the moment being trialled in Wythenshaw, Salford and Calderdale - meet at the same time each week and are led by 2 trained walk leaders. The charity is encouraging everyone to take exercise and, to this end, invite applications for more people to train and to raise awareness of the walking clubs. Please log on to Breast Cancer Care's website.If you feel you have more energy, the NHS has a website dedicated to running. Couch to 5k gives a good deal of information, training plans and suggestions about footwear etc.It does seem strange that - despite the Couch to 5k website - GPs in the UK are not emulating their European colleagues. Would this not reduce the NHS prescription budget - not to mention the cost of obesity surgery?For a good start, try Breast Cancer Care's Health and Fitness DVD - or, perhaps, buy a dog!