The more Breast Cancer reveals about itself or - as it is not just one disease, perhaps I should say "themselves" - the more confusing become the issues surrounding the disease. To check or not to check - to be screened or not to be screened?Despite a huge amount of work by all the UK breast cancer charities to raise awareness of the disease, a Breakthrough Breast Cancer survey in October of last year showed that 94 per cent of British women could not name the five common signs and symptoms of breast cancer. Indeed, only 9 per cent said that they would "feel confident that they would notice a change when checking their breasts".All the UK breast cancer charities recommend that women - and men - should check their breasts regularly. Coppafeel even sends reminder texts to ensure that the young remember and make it part of their everyday life. Following the results of its survey, Breakthrough has put "Touch, Look, Check" at the heart of its work.Yet, four years ago in the USA, a government task force agreed that women should stop the monthly testing sessions. The words "self-examination" were replaced with "self-awareness" and this was decreed to be the way forward. However, "self-awareness" is now being questioned. Dr Katrina Mark from the University of Maryland Medical School said "breast self-awareness is at best ineffective and, at worst, costly and anxiety-provoking." Instead, women are being "urged to know the signs of breast cancer, their family history, the risk factors - and to take steps to control their weight and lifestyle".If the awareness of women - not to mention men - in the USA is the same as in the UK, will anyone notice any changes? Does anyone know the risk factors?In the UK, women are invited for screening from the age of 49 - and then only every three years, without the additional clinical examination. In the USA, mammograms are available from any age - but 40 is recommended - and from then it is an annual mammogram with a clinical examination.However, there is still confusion for women over "screening" - and, for the moment, screening means mammograms. Two reports in the USA call for "individualized decision-making" - i.e. handing the decision over to the woman - but women need to be properly informed and confident that clinicians and researchers all agree. At the moment that is not the case.Dr Nancy Keating from the Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital is co-author of a new review, published last week in the Journal of the American Medical Association.The team searched Medline (a database compiled by the US National Library of Medicine) to assess the results of 54 years of mammography. They deduced that mammography has given a 19 per cent overall reduction in the risk of dying from breast cancer but, also, 19 per cent of cancers detected would not have become apparent without screening. Dr Keating said that the results "mean that 36 out of 190 women who got regular mammograms for 10 years would be subjected to unnecessary surgery, chemotherapy or radiation".There are, of course, false negatives too and my cancer would have been missed if it had not been for a clinical examination by my consultant. In the UK, we need to lobby for every woman to see either a breast doctor or nurse after the mammogram/scan. I know which way I would vote.The number of young women - in their late twenties and thirties - developing and dying from breast cancer is growing apace. Speaking to a lady in Connecticut yesterday, she told me that she knew of 10 young women - locally - who have died of the disease in the last few years. The same is reflected in the UK.The younger the patient, the more aggressive the disease but age and lifestyle are always given as two of the prime factors in the development of cancer. Yet these were young women, who had not had time to make the wrong lifestyle choices. The recent report from Oxford University refutes the belief that organic food is better than food full of pesticides - but there has to be something, other than the usually quoted factors, which is causing the deaths of these women in their prime.False positives, negatives and the majority of mammograms might be history if the current planned research by the Medical Detection Dogs proves that a breath sample would give the accurate answer - and I am sure it will do so. Scathing remarks about "having a dog in each GP's surgery" is to do the scientific research by MDD no justice. Would we not rather breathe into a tube than have a mammogram?For men and women - the 5 most common signs of breast cancer are:A lump.
A change in skin texture.
A rash or crusting.
A change in the appearance of the nipple.
A discharge from the nipple.Do you check and are you screened? Please email me with your opinion - judith.potts@telegraph.co.ukFollow @TelegraphBlogs
