Listening to Lord Saatchi - whose wife died from primary peritoneal cancer, which behaves and is treated similarly to epithelial ovarian cancer - speak of the urgent need to change the legislation, in order to allow cancer doctors to act creatively in the treatment of all forms of the disease, two thoughts sprang to mind.First of all, if Lord Saatchi's Medical Innovation Bill is passed - and I sincerely hope it will be - where would NICE fit into this new world. Would doctors be able to offer treatments which have not been approved by NICE? Would funding keep raising its ugly head, as it does now? Would drugs such as Avastin be allowed for all stages of ovarian cancer?Secondly, I was reminded of the seemingly endless trials for the CVac vaccine for ovarian cancer.CVac is a process which uses the patient's own T-cells to stimulate the immune system to launch an attack on the ovarian cancer cells.Dr Frazer - who is carrying out the research for Prima Biomed, told me:Last year I wrote a blog post about this work and received many emails from women desperate for a chance to try CVac. Sadly, I had to reply that - as yet - there is no sign of this being offered in the UK or even trialled here. Why not? This is a relatively side-effect-free method of treatment, which many thousands of women would gladly trial. Having asked various ovarian cancer consultants for their opinions, I was shocked to discover that none had heard of the treatment. Does this mean that - although many doctors could be creative in their thinking - there is a narrow-mindedness and non-enthusiasm for broader concepts of treatment?Lord Saatchi has set up and is sponsoring an Initiative on Cancer. This will be an informal collaboration of clinicians, academics, researchers, patients and charities - whose vision is innovation in research and clinical practice that will allow people with rare and less common cancers more choices and better quality of life. I hope that the clinicians and academics will look outside the UK and see how medics from other countries treat their patients. There is news of another T-cell vaccine for ovarian cancer - similar to CVac being developed and used in the USA. Go to Ovarian Cancer Action's website for more details.I hope, too, that Lord Saatchi's considerable influence will persuade our lawmakers. He feels that the current law "inhibits brilliant, creative doctors from implementing treatments that could pave the way for a cure for this most obdurate and cruel of diseases" and prevents less well-known treatments from being accepted and trialled. How many drugs and treatments are sitting on laboratory shelves which just might be the answer, if only the doctors felt able to use them?Lord Saatchi described his wife's treatment - which is the same as would have been offered 40 years ago - as "medieval, degrading and ineffective" - with no acceptance of the new treatments being used in other countries. It seems that the doctors did not dare to move away from the tried, tested but unsuccessful treatments they knew.Today, May 8th, is the first World Ovarian Cancer Day. For more information on the days' events, or about ovarian cancer, please log onto the websites of Ovacome, Target Ovarian Cancer, Wellbeing of Women, or Ovarian Cancer Action.