Loneliness is a word none of us likes to address. Usually associated with the elderly, an Ipsos MORI poll for Macmillan Cancer Support, estimates that 400,000 people living with cancer, are also lonely.Ciaran Devane, CEO of Macmillan, suggests that the figure of 400,000 (1 in 5 of those with a cancer diagnosis) is set to double by 2030.There is an element of loneliness in every cancer diagnosis. Friends and family can be supportive but, when all is said and done, there is but one person who undertakes the "journey", which makes it a solo trip.For those who return to an empty house, it can be unimaginably lonely. There is no one to put their arms around you; to distract you from your constant thoughts; to listen; and no one, even, to make a cup of tea.Indeed, according to the results of the Ipsos MORI poll, many people in this situation do not eat properly, suffer from insomnia, are reluctant to leave the house and drink too much alcohol. Often there is the loss of a job, bringing with it financial and psychological problems.Having read the report, I wondered - as I have so many times before - where are the NHS care services? Unless the patient's condition is at a stage where Marie Curie or a hospice service is needed, surely it is not beyond the wit of the GP to send support in the form of a District Nurse or Health Visitor? Oh yes, of course, the numbers have been depleted to such an extent that there would rarely be one available. This is an appalling state of affairs and our NHS should be deeply ashamed of itself. All those managers make it so top heavy that any hope of more community nurses is completely squashed.Macmillan offers an online cancer support group, as does Cancer Buddies (the global cancer support network) and many of the UK's specialist cancer support charities - Breast Cancer Care, Jo's Cervical Cancer Trust and Beating Bowel Cancer to name but a few. However, online is not for everyone. Face to face with a person who understands completely the complexities of a cancer diagnosis is, for many, by far the best option.Obviously, there are cancer support groups in many towns and cities - the most obvious being the three Havens in London, Leeds and Hereford - but visits to these can be prohibited by financial, geographical or more personal reasons. A regular visitor to the house, armed with the medical answers to questions, would ease the anxiety and loneliness for a short while. Or a delivery of a specially prepared meal would address the lack of nutrition often found in cancer patients who have neither the strength nor the money to cook or shop.There is a wonderful charity in London called "The Food Chain" which delivers meals to people who are HIV positive. This is not a charity which has the time to send visitors but simply concentrates on feeding those who are vulnerable. Every person on the list has a meal specially prepared for him or her - delivering the nutrients missing in the body (and taking into account the person's cultural requirements). Using the correct ingredients for the patient helps to restore the body's ability to contend with the disease. Shopping is also delivered for those unable to leave the house.Like all charities, The Food Chain needs regular donations to enable it to cope with the huge numbers using its services each week but, I wonder, if the funding was there, could the charity include cancer patients who are housebound? Or, would another charity use the Food Chain's method and begin its own food delivery service? Good as the old Meals on Wheels system was, everyone received the same meal. The Food Chain has proved time and again the success of tailor-making each mealI am constantly amazed that GPs do not understand that cancer brings with it a loneliness. Concentrating solely on the treatment routine leaves the patient who lives alone even more vulnerable. Cancer patients very often use a mask to face the world and too many GPs are taken in by this - probably because it makes their job easier. Including supportive aftercare should be part of the GP's job - and, indeed, the hospital doctor's job. The least they could do is offer information about support services. For some inexplicable reason very few think about the patient's life outside the surgery or hospital.I know that some people do not want what they see as a "fuss". That is, of course, their decision - but the NHS should, at least, have something on offer. As always, it is the charities which provide some of the answers.Personalised medicine is seen as the way forward. Surely personalised aftercare must not be forgotten - and that includes quality food and company.