Every Saturday afternoon, one of English National Ballet's rehearsal rooms in London hosts a very unusual troupe of dancers. "Dance for Parkinson's" is the Ballet company's programme for people with Parkinson's Disease, their families or carers.Alan, a long-standing friend of mine who now has Parkinson's, invited me to attend a class and see the remarkable effect that this dance form has on the people who participate - and their symptoms. So - having searched in vain for my old beribboned ballet shoes, not worn for 40 years - I visited my local ballet shop, acquired a new pair and joined Alan at Markova House, in London's Kensington.Alan explained to me that, for all participants, "an important part of the experience is being in the professional arena. Not only do we have professional teachers but we also have the opportunity to learn how a production is put together; to meet the dancers and musicians; to watch rehearsals and attend productions."The mirrored and barred ground-floor rehearsal room, decorated with an archive of posters from productions of London Festival Ballet which morphed into English National Ballet, was set with enough chairs for up to 40 people. The ballet teacher, Becky, led the class, assisted by several volunteers, ex-ballet dancers like Danielle and Angela - not forgetting Nathan, who accompanied us on the piano and drum and led the voice-work. The class was conducted as if we were professional dancers but with a natural cheerfulness, un-patronising encouragement and a great understanding of Parkinson's.Based on the method devised and used by the Mark Morris Dance Group in Brooklyn, New York, these classes allow participants to spend some time concentrating on the art-form that is ballet, rather than on their disease. Talking to people taking part, I heard how the classes "take me out of my everyday life" and, through carefully constructed exercises "help loosen my spinal area which, in turn, aids my stability and posture" (something that can be lost as the disease takes hold). Mobility is improved, the rigidity of the muscles eased - and dyskinesia (the constant movements - often produced by chosen over-medication as an alternative to the stiffness), can be calmed - if only momentarily.The class time is certainly not "a piece of cake" but is a "joyful and joyous experience" for the participants and "the most rewarding class I teach" for Becky. "People leave uplifted and feeling totally positive", was how Angela put it.The classes are always based on the current performance by the Company. Usually this involves the teachers selecting scenes from the ballet which can be simplified - but still kept as ballet steps - and danced by the class. However, the latest production will be four ballets under the title of "Lest We Forget" - using the different styles of choreographers Akram Khan, Russell Maliphant, Liam Scarlet and George Williamson. These have yet to be completed, so, this term, the class is building an improvisation on the theme - using voice and movement.Akram Khan's background is in classical Kathak dancing from northern India. In contrast to the grace of classical ballet arm movements, Kathak movements appear rhythmic, sharp and with a direct intention. Sitting on our chairs to perform this section, I watched Alan out of the corner of my eye and realised that, as he concentrated on the Kathak routine, he had stopped shaking.The atmosphere in the room was one of exhilaration and elation. Indeed, one gentleman, with whom I paired to do a standing Kathak dance exercise, told me that at the end of each session he feels "Like I have had a drink". Dance is not just physical exercise.Dr. Sara Houston, from the University of Roehampton, has conducted a research project into the benefits of dance for Parkinson's disease. She explained that, with the onset of the condition, there is a loss of dopamine in the brain. This chemical functions as a neurotransmitter, sending signals to nerve cells - for example, controlling movement and keeping energy levels high. Without dopamine, movement becomes involuntary and energy levels drop. The "communal motivation of the classes is an important part of life for people with the disease", helping to combat the depression which features high on the list of symptoms, with 40 per cent of patients feeling a lack of self-worth.Sara's research proved that joining together to dance "precipitated feelings of well-being, determination and achievement"; provided a vehicle for social interaction (socialising after the class with tea, biscuits and conversation); and offered opportunities to create movement and stimulate the imagination."Tamara Rojo, Artistic Director of English National Ballet, emphasised to me her belief in the importance of the programme and her determination to support the roll-out to other cities in the UK and globally. The Paul Hamlyn Foundation is helping to fund the programme and to train teachers and musicians.There are classes offered in Liverpool and Oxford too but, given the numbers of people afflicted by Parkinson's and the fact that there is at least one ballet school in each town, surely it should be possible for a teacher from each school to complete the training and offer the classes?For more information about taster classes and training please look on the website of English National Ballet.Follow @TelegraphBlogs
