The comedian, Bill Bailey, led out a celebrity squad to launch Prostate Cancer UK's new campaign - Men United versus Prostate Cancer. Footballer, Luther Blissett; Cricketer, Gladstone Small; and Rugby official (with his own diagnosis of prostate cancer) David Kurk gave their support.Team - Together Everybody Achieves More - is Prostate Cancer's intention for its new campaign to raise awareness and money for the UK's "match" against prostate cancer. Men United is a movement for all men - and women - borrowing the passion, support and language of sport to get men engaged in their own health.As Bill says in the television commercial - filmed at Millwall FC - one man in the UK dies every hour from prostate cancer. Over 400,000 men are diagnosed every year. This is an alarming figure and one which will take the cancer to the top of the list in the next ten years. For white men, the chance of developing the disease is one in eight - but for black men, the figure is one in four. I wonder - how many of us were aware of these figures?Owen Sharp, CEO of PCUK, said: "In one year, England spends seven times more money on burning over-prescribed medicines than it does on prostate cancer research. That is obscene and men deserve better."Men seem perplexed as to why there is so much more attention and money directed towards breast cancer than prostate cancer, but the truth is that men are much less inclined to be proactive in campaigning, in discussing with friends any worries or symptoms, or even revealing any anxiety to partners. They are much more inclined to "hope it will go away" and not talk about it. Health is not a topic for male conversation. Consequently, diagnosis of prostate cancer tends to come at a later stage - and, all too often, too late a stage.The Men United campaign asks everyone to "man up" and sign up to the team. Visit their website, take quick quiz and join the squad. You might be surprised at your answers. The campaign wants to reach men over the age of 45 - but hope fervently that women (who are often better activists and supporters) will join in, will sign for the team and will persuade the men in their lives to educate themselves about prostate cancer on a personal level and then take that information outwards with the campaign.While PCUK was launching its new campaign, the aptly-named "Tackle" (The Prostate Cancer Support Federation - run by patients for patients) was composing a petition to Jeremy Hunt, Secretary of State for Health about the new drug, Enzalutamide. Clinicians treating patients with advanced prostate cancer have had enormous success with the drug when others, like Abiraterone, have failed or the patient has become resistant. In its Final Appraisal Document for Enzalutamide, Nice has decreed that while it can be made available under the Cancer Drugs Fund, it cannot be given to men who have already taken Abiraterone. No reason is given for this decision.On the publication of the Final document, Tackle wrote a strong letter to Nice, citing the "abuse of process, as there was no evidence to support it". What happened next was extraordinary. Nice withdrew the Final document and asked recipients to deny it had ever been issued. Sandy Tyndale-Biscoe, Chair of Tackle (and a prostate cancer sufferer) said, "Patients are outraged by this betrayal by Nice. It has broken its own appraisal procedures in order to introduce a significant change that will be the death knell for many patients. Then, when caught out, NICE attempted to cover its tracks."I contacted Nice and received a hugely long answer - but with no writer's name attached - in which it agreed that Tackle and other organisations had contacted it about "a potential procedural issue" but that, in the second Final Document, "Enzalutamide is now recommended for a wider population" of people whose "disease has progressed during and after any number of chemotherapies. None of the patients in the trial had received Abiraterone previously, therefore the Committee was not able to draw any conclusions about the effectiveness of Enzalutamide after Abiraterone". Yet Clinicians are recommending the drug.
Nice's statement went on to say:Would that first document have been withdrawn without the contacts from Tackle and others? Does Nice now feel it does not need to be held accountable for its actions? Are we not going down a slippery slope? Is this not power without accountability - indeed, without responsibility? Who are these shadowy figures who make life-changing decisions for us? There is no public election process so, how does one become a member of this organisation? Who nominates the members? How do you qualify? Very rarely does a representative raise his or her head above the parapet to answer any questions or reveal their identity. In my last blog post, I posed a question to Nice but - as ever - have not received a response.Power is dangerous without transparency, accountability and responsibility. "Together Everyone Achieves More" could be applied to the need for the Cancer Charities to keep a watchful eye on Nice. Where would we be without them?Is it not time a bright light was shone on Nice?To sign the petition, click here.