Those who work in the field of cancer research, diagnosis or treatment are talking more and more about the day when cancer will no longer be associated with its location in the body. The disease will simply be called "cancer", without any other definition.Professor Sean Kehoe - who took up the Lawson Tait Chair in Gynaecological Cancer at Birmingham University in 2012 - explained to me that what we now call "ovarian cancer" might well be misnamed. As we know already, triple negative breast cancer and oestrogen-receptive or HER 2 breast cancers are different diseases - likewise ovarian cancer is a myriad of different types and subtypes. Again - as with breast cancer - it can "flip" during treatment. If that happens, the new form should be treated as a totally new cancer. Medical and scientific research is yielding so much more information about all cancers, that it is no longer as simple as it once was to place a cancer in a particular category.Not only are no two cancers the same, but no two patients are the same either. People respond to the same treatment in very different ways. The hope is that the "one-size-fits-all" form of treatment will be left behind entirely, the disease will be identified by its tumour make-up - not by a body part - and every person diagnosed with cancer will be treated on an individual basis. I am no scientist but, if I understand it correctly, the profile of a tumour in one part of the body may well show that it has similar constituents to another in a different location. Mutations in oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes occur in many different cancers. Therefore, it would seem that cancer drugs should not be restricted for use only with the type for which they are licensed.In Phoenix, Arizona, a company called Caris Life Sciences has developed "Caris Molecular Intelligence" to profile tumours and measure their biomarkers. A detailed report - supported by clinical evidence - analyses each biomarker result and lists the drugs which can be used to combat the findings. Against each drug there is a positive or negative mark - i.e. which to use and which to avoid for that particular patient. Caris explains its procedure thus: "The patient's unique molecular "fingerprint" is matched against the latest and best medical literature to determine which of the available treatment options have been associated with a higher or lower likelihood of benefit in treating cancers with similar characteristics." For instance, a drug which is normally associated with breast cancer might be suggested for a tumour that is not in the breast but is similar in its constituents.At the moment, most profiling is done by Caris on solid tumour cancers - breast, colorectal, ovarian, melanoma and lung - when the patient has already gone through the standard treatment; when the patient has a rare or aggressive cancer; when the oncologist has exhausted the standard care or the cancer has metastasised; or the patient has become resistant to the treatment. Resistance to a drug builds over time, the biomarkers may change or the cancer may "flip" - at which point the profiling would need to be repeated.The process can be done at any time after diagnosis - and it must be entirely probable that the profiling will eventually be done at the point-of-diagnosis, when the primary tumour is found. Indeed, it would seem logical for molecular profiling to become the first port of call for oncologists in the future.Caris' system is used regularly in the USA (some 50,000 patients have received the service since 2005) but UK oncologists - like Dr. Nick Plowman, Head of Oncology at the Hammersmith Hospital in London - are beginning to use it too. Patients in the UK would expect to pay £3,700 for the profiling service, which will return the results in 10-15 days.There are, of course, many questions to be answered, including:
Would NICE be prepared to allow Caris Molecular Intelligence to be used by the NHS?
The drug suggested by Caris might be part of a trial. How would NICE react to this?
Would NICE allow a drug to be used for a cancer for which it was not licensed?
Would the patient be able to apply to the Cancer Drugs Fund for a drug not licensed for his or her type of cancer? What would be its answer?While it is unclear whether this profiling could sit inside or outside the NHS, I would be extremely interested to hear from The Cancer Drugs Fund and from NICE. How would my questions be answered by them?Surely, this type of molecular profiling can only be of huge assistance in the correct treatment of cancer? Not only will it save the NHS money but, more importantly, it will help to prevent patients suffering unnecessarily from unsuitable treatments.This will deliver totally "personalised" medicine.