Martin Flannagan, CEO of Beating Bowel Cancer - the charity which provides support for those with bowel cancer - has written to Jeremy Hunt (The Secretary of State for Health) warning him that patients with terminal bowel cancer will lose their life-enhancing drugs when the Cancer Drugs Fund comes to an end in 2014. The estimate from the charity points to 6,500 patients being affected.What happens to those already on the drug when the Fund comes to an end - or any of the other cancer patients on drugs currently being funded in this way? Surely there will not be a cut-off day and then everyone is left without vital medication? Please could someone tell us so that we can be reassured.A combination of the end of the Cancer Drugs Fund and NICE's perplexing decisions will be adding to the huge stress of living with cancer.On 21st March this year, NICE published a draft guidance, in which it stated that it would not be recommending the drug Everolimus for patients with advanced breast cancer.Dr. Rachel Greig from the charity, Breakthrough Breast Cancer, responded by saying:NICE made this decision despite Professor Stephen Johnson from The Royal Marsden Hospital in London saying, in September 2012, "The impact of the drug is so large that it is changing the natural history of the disease. Everolimus is, potentially, the most significant breakthrough for advanced breast cancer since the discovery - in the mid 1990s - of drugs that lower oestrogen level and has the potential to redefine the way this common form of advanced breast cancer (ER+ and HER 2) is treated and, importantly, offers women an effective alternative to a chemotherapy regime".The results of trials estimated that up to 8,000 women a year could benefit from the drug, which - given with the aromatise inhibitor, exemestane - could stall tumour growth by 7.8 months.It would seem that 7.8 months is not considered long enough for NICE and £36,000 for a year's supply is too expensive. Would NICE not consider further negotiations with the manufacturers? Surely that has to be part of NICE's brief?NICE recently made a similar decision about Avastin for women with ovarian cancer. The drug has been used on the NHS but now, as Target Ovarian Cancer's response said: "NICE's decision will leave women diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2014 and beyond, without routine access to this important drug, which has been successfully trialled in the UK."This is a particularly ridiculous situation where NICE will not appraise Avastin - described as "the most important drug in a generation" - because the dose indicated is double that which is used in the UK. Why cannot the manufacturer - Roche - simply apply for a new licence at the lower UK dose? This is insanity and I would beg both NICE and Roche to grow up and start talking to each other.Once again, we have drugs which have been trialled and tested by patients but now the very same patients will not have access to the medication.I first wrote about Everolimus in October 2011 and when I quoted Professor Johnston in September last year, I said: "Now we need NICE to listen to eminent doctors like Professor Johnson and allow itself to be influenced by Breakthrough Breast Cancer.Clearly, NICE has not listened and I wonder how many letters and emails it has received from women desperate to live for that extra few months - to witness a wedding, a birth of a child or simply to put their affairs in order. These two drugs feature high on the list of emails I receive, asking where to go to obtain the medication. Perhaps NICE would be kind enough to tell me what answer it gives to these heartbreaking emails - or are they simply ignored?Avastin can be accessed under the Cancer Drugs Fund until the end of March 2014. After that, the new Value Based Pricing system is unlikely to cover existing drugs - but how will it work? Does anyone know? Perhaps Jeremy Hunt could reply to Beating Bowel Cancer and explain his plan?I wish wholeheartedly that the Pharmaceutical Companies, NICE and the Government would start to communicate with each other and with us. Surely it is the welfare of patients which should be their prime concern - but we see little evidence of this; instead we see them all playing politics with people's lives.