Follow @SharonFGrigsbyA good friend sent me this personal story written by a Knoxville, Tenn., pastor who acknowledged that he knew more about Tulcea, Romania, than about his own inner city. There are lessons here for all of us who are grappling with how we can personally help lift our neighbors out of poverty. Doug Banister's article is all the more real because of its unexpected — and far from heartwarming — ending. It starkly points out the challenges we are all up against. And these are exactly the issues we try to figure out how to effectively address in our Bridging Dallas' North-South Gap project.If you don't have time to read the entire article, at least read this:Some well-meaning Christians have a theology of mission that seeks to alleviate the spiritual and physical suffering of people far away, but pays little attention to needs here at home.I know because I was one of them. I spent many years taking mission trips to Tulcea, Romania. We shared the gospel, cared for orphans, and started a medical clinic. It seemed that God moved in powerful ways. Then my friends Jon and Toni moved into one of Knoxville's marginalized neighborhoods. Jon invited me to go on prayer walks with him on Wednesday mornings. I saw syringes on playgrounds, prostitutes turning tricks, hustlers selling drugs. Our walks led me to volunteer at the elementary school in Jon's neighborhood. I'd assumed all the schools in our city were pretty much the same. They aren't. Kids with B averages in Jon's school score in the 30th percentile on standardized tests. Kids with B averages in my neighborhood score in the 90th percentile.Along the way, a pastor named Johnny began showing me what the city looked like from the front lawn of his cash-strapped inner-city church. As I spent more time in Knoxville's at-risk neighborhoods, I realized that I knew more about poverty in Tulcea than I knew about poverty in Knoxville. I was pursuing the common good of a city across the world while neglecting the common good of the place where I lived.As I read about Coach Doug and 10-year-old Martin, I was reminded of the most important remark the Rev. Gerald Britt made Sunday in his presentation at First Methodist Dallas. While many questions from the audience involved the Trayvon Martin case, my question was "What is the single most important thing we can do to help the poor in Dallas?"Gerald's answer has stayed with me all week: "What the poor in Dallas most need is allies, especially allies who are in the places that the poor don't get access to."This blog is one of those places. So my effort today is to ask this question of all who are reading: Is your place of worship devoting its resources to the "Martins" in urban Dallas or to the orphans of Tulcea? And where could you make the greatest impact with "your time and your treasures?"