Every day this week Telegraph TV is hosting our Breast Cancer Q and A - with Baroness Delyth Morgan from Breast Cancer Campaign and Antonia Dean from Breast Cancer Care. Log on to The Telegraph to hear their answers to your questions.I know that many people are perplexed as to why there are so many breast cancer charities, but these two particular organisations do very different work. Breast Cancer Care does exactly what it says it does and offers people with breast cancer support, information and aftercare. Breast Cancer Campaign is a research charity - and founded The Breast Cancer Tissue Bank. Not only are they joining forces this week but they are also teaming up with the All Party Parliamentary Group on Breast Cancer - along with Breakthrough Breast Cancer, who are the Secretariat for the Group - to launch an inquiry about the experiences of women and men, over the age of 65, who have been diagnosed with breast cancer in the last five years. The Inquiry will cover diagnosis, access to treatment, care and support for older people with breast cancer. Evidence suggests that older patients are not benefiting from the advances in radiotherapy, chemotherapy and surgery that have dramatically improved the survival chances of younger patients. In fact, a recent study has found that just 14 per cent of patients aged over 70, with early breast cancer, are offered standard chemotherapy after surgery.The Inquiry wants to hear from health care professionals with an interest in this topic and from older people who have been diagnosed with breast cancer over the age of 65 in the last five years and their families, partners and carers.You can find out more including how to submit written evidence to be considered by the inquiry here, or contact Lizzie on lizziec@breakthrough.org.uk or call 020 7025 0277.This is sure to be touched on during the week, but it is such an important piece of news that it deserves to be repeated here. Funded by Breast Cancer Campaign, Dr. Rob Clarke has proved that breast cancer stem cells taken directly from the patient who has developed the HER-2 positive form of the disease - for which there are few treatment options - can be targeted to treat the cancer. Stopping these stem cells could reduce the chance of tumours surviving treatment and spreading to the bones, liver or brain. Dr. Clarke's team found that a molecule called Interleukin-8 is found in patients with more breast cancer stem cells and that this molecule plays a significant role in controlling the stem cells' activity. Lapatinib (a drug already used to target HER-2 positive breast cancer) became even more effective at stopping this activity.Current treatments kill the cells in a breast cancer tumour but it is thought they fail to kill the cancer-initiating stem cells, which continue to divide. By killing the cancer root, the tumour cannot regrow and patients will have "better clinical options".Dr. Clarke said "Targeting the molecule IL-8 has the potential to stop all types of breast cancer recurring and spreading."Log on to the websites of the two charities for more information about the Q and A and follow on Twitter with the hashtag #breastcancerQandA.