At the beginning of last December, I spent an afternoon with a group of ladies - all of whom had come through surgery, radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy - on a spa day. Organised by Gloria Halim, the founder of Rock On Divas, this was one of her specially designed days and retreats. Gloria - whose experience of breast cancer led her to leave the corporate world and found the group - describes her spa days as a "blend of indulgent pampering with serious advice on how to get you back to full health, fitness and happiness". The morning was devoted to understanding healthy nutrition - Gloria is a firm believer in juicing and smoothies - and, after lunch, Jennifer Young talked to us about her brand of cosmetics and skin products. Called "Beauty Despite Cancer", they have been developed specifically for those going through chemotherapy or radiotherapy.Looking at Gloria, who is shining with health and energy, I made an early new year's resolution to adhere to her dictum about using natural foods to increase energy and boost the immune system. Her book "Healing Foods, Healthy Foods" lists every super-food and analyses which particular vitamin, mineral or antioxidant each contains.Gloria also offers one-to-one nutritional advice sessions, which can be booked on her website, or by telephone on 07594 308860. Her first January session is a three-day detox programme beginning on 31st January.Jennifer Young is an associate member of the Royal Society of Medicine, has a BSc (Hons) in Biology, is an experienced microbiologist and is a practicing nutritional therapist. She has been active in medical research and lectures in nutrition, skin care and product formulation. She is a qualified aromatherapist, beauty therapist and product formulator - with two post graduate qualifications in health-related fields. With all this knowledge behind her, she was the perfect person for her local hospital's cancer centre to ask to develop a range of skincare for their patients.The cancer team at University Hospital North Staffs was very explicit about which natural and organic ingredients could be used and which should definitely be omitted. Jennifer asked us which natural products we would choose, if we were mixing a skin-care preparation. Most of us mentioned aloe vera and avocado. No - these products were banned by the cancer unit, along with soya, borage, evening primrose oil and anything else which contain natural oestrogens. The lady in front of me delved instantly into her handbag to retrieve her skincare and check the ingredients - the rest of us were mentally sorting out the contents of our bathroom cupboards! Jennifer's products are perfume and paraben-free and without any hormone-altering chemicals.I asked Jennifer which of her products were the most popular and she told me that her "Itchy Skin Oil" and "Lip Balm" (which I tried and it tastes delicious!) are greatly loved by patients going through radio or chemotherapy - or are post-treatment - and whose skin has become dry and irritated. All details of her products are on her website.As I travelled home with a copy of Gloria's book - after a yoga class and massage - I dwelt on the instructions to Jennifer from the clinical team at North Staffs hospital. Do other clinicians agree with North Staffs? What did your doctors or nurses tell you? As I have written before, I wonder often whether or not the supplement I took to combat the menopause contributed to my breast cancer.Does the hospital's instructions about plant oestrogens mean that the medical jury - which has been out on the question of soya influencing the development of breast cancer - has now made its decision? If so, does that decision encompass other plant oestrogens? After all, avocado comes with a whole series of recommendations - from lowering cholesterol and scavenging free radicals to acting as nature's botox? Is it just a question of balance?Gloria's day at The Dolphin Square Spa did us all a power of good. With the exception of one lady, who had been treated for ovarian cancer, we were all in the breast cancer club - and the youngest was about to turn 23. Going through the cancer experience, none of us had felt like joining a support group, all had wanted to deal with our cancer alone - but, because of the special atmosphere created by Gloria, we found ourselves discussing and sharing experiences.Gloria's book lives up to its title, with recipes for meals (often based on the acknowledged healthy diets found in areas like The Mediterranean), juices and smoothies. I am determined to put my juicer to work - it is just a question of changing my mindset and remembering to do it!To kick start your body for 2014, whizz together, 1 cm ginger, half a teaspoon of cinnamon, half a teaspoon of turmeric, 1 lemon or lime, juice and rind. Knock it back and you will find it brings to mind the wonderful Leslie Phillips. Gloria has called it "Ding Dong"!