The news that Jacquie Beltrao - the Sky Sports presenter - has been diagnosed with breast cancer aged 48, took me back sixteen years, to the day I heard that my oldest and dearest friend, Jessica, had been diagnosed with the same cancer. She was also 48.Jessica died the following January. Her body did not take at all kindly to the chemotherapy regime and she succumbed to undetected bronchial pneumonia. Undetected, because the doctor on duty at the hospital - where she had undergone her mastectomy and treatment and to which she returned when she began to feel extremely unwell - was not the one who had treated her. He, clearly, paid scant attention to her notes and sent her home with oral antibiotics for a chest infection. She died the next morning.Fifteen years later, I still wonder whether or not my friend would have had a chance of survival if she had been seen that day by a specialist breast cancer doctor. My own consultant saved the life of a colleague of mine - some five years later - when his vigilance ensured that he spotted her development of bronchial pneumonia after a mastectomy and chemotherapy.By the time I was diagnosed in 2008, the breast cancer landscape had changed enormously. Specialist breast cancer units were slowly being developed. Not only had medical knowledge and science moved on at an amazing pace, but so too had the charities.The last five years have brought breast cancer to the forefront of everyone's minds. This is a mixed blessing for some people, who are unhappy about the spotlight falling so centrally on the disease, leaving others - particularly men's cancers - in the shadows.However, there should be no doubt that the large breast cancer charities have developed the template for others treading the same road. Whether it is the information available for those diagnosed with the disease, the availability and high standard of pre or post-operative care, or the huge amount of research into the causes, treatments and impact of breast cancer, the world is now a very different place.Fifteen years ago, Breast Cancer Care was four years old. Originally set up by Betty Westgate in 1973 (five years after her own diagnosis), it was called The Mastectomy Association. Her obituary, carried in The Guardian in 2000, described how Betty was determined to tackle "the myths, inaccuracies and superstitions" surrounding the disease and the doctors who "did not understand why a woman needed her questions answered".With the development of the Internet, those myths, inaccuracies and superstitions still abound - and have a considerably wider audience - but, using the same device, the modern charity that is Breast Cancer Care, continues Betty's ambition to inform, educate and care for those suffering from the disease.The Breast Cancer Haven was a year old in 1998. So horrified was Sara Davenport at the lack of emotional support and information available at the time to Wendy - her children's nanny - when she was diagnosed with the illness, that Sara sold her art gallery and created the first of three Havens. Now, about to open the fourth, the charity offers support of all kinds - from breast cancer nurses and free complementary therapies to support groups and benefits advice. The extraordinary peace of each Haven, combined with the immediate understanding of every member of staff, makes for a sanctuary away from the pressures of living with the disease. There are Havens in London, Leeds and Hereford, with one planned for Wessex. Telephone consultations, support CDs and DVDs are available for those who cannot travel.The worries of breast cancer patients - particularly when treatment has ended - may seem petty to GPs, but are very real and well understood by those at The Haven. I would urge all GPs to refer their patients - it would free up appointments for others and allow those with breast cancer to have the best possible reassurance and care - in a longer time than seven minutes.Breast Cancer Campaign is probably best known for its Breast Cancer Tissue Bank, founded in 2012, enabling women and men to donate their tumours and tissue for research. The jigsaw piece that is the logo for Breast Cancer Campaign, represents the missing piece of the puzzle that is breast cancer. As we now know, this is not one disease, therefore there will be many pieces needed before the disease can be overcome and outlived. Over its lifetime of 25 years, the charity has awarded grants to the value of £39 million and is currently supporting research projects in the UK and Ireland to the tune of £15,630,534 - each offering its own piece to help complete the jigsaw.Men are no longer excluded from information about the disease. It is openly acknowledged that it is not a gender-exclusive condition and men are encouraged to check themselves in the same way as women.There is still a vast amount of work to be done, but attitudes have changed. The words "breast cancer" can now be spoken and no one needs to travel the breast cancer path alone or uninformed.Who would have thought, 15 years ago, that one day Australian cricketers would be seen wearing pink baggy caps, playing with pink stumps in front of a pink-clad crowd - and that is the men's team! Jane McGrath, the wife of the cricketer, Glenn McGrath, died from breast cancer in 2008 and, in her memory, The Ashes Pink Test raises millions of dollars to fund breast cancer nurses and raise awareness of the disease in Australia.In 1998 none of us knew anything about the disease - save that it required a mastectomy and chemotherapy. Who knows with what type Jessica had been diagnosed? I certainly had no idea that there was more than one type - or that some have a better outcome than others.Maybe the result would have been the same in the end. We will never know, but I will always wonder.