"We still don't understand why some prostate cancers turn out to be harmless - the grass snakes - while others are aggressive - the vipers - and resistant to treatment." This was said by Professor Malcolm Mason, Cancer Research's UK prostate cancer expert based at Cardiff University.However, medical science moves on apace and at the recently-held Liverpool National Cancer Research Institute Conference, a new test - called Prolaris - was unveiled. Developed by Myriad Genetics and funded by a combination of Cancer Research UK, Queen Mary University of London, The US National Institutes of Health, The Koch Foundation and The Orchid Appeal, it is hoped that this test can spot the difference between aggressive and slow-growing tumours - and so may spare men unnecessary treatment. For those with slow-growing prostate cancer, the only treatment would be "active surveillance."What about the initial diagnosis? The PSA (a blood test) and digital rectal examinations are notoriously unreliable, compelling some men to have biopsies, only to discover that it was a false result in the first place. Surely, this is where the medical detection dogs come into their own. It would seem obvious that  following a high PSA reading, rather than having a digital rectal examination (with its obvious discomfort) or conducting a biopsy (sometimes requiring a considerable number of needles), a simple urine sample should be sent to the MDD and the extraordinary noses of its detection dogs put into play. They have a 94 per cent success rate.Furthermore, unnecessary repeated prostate biopsies can have serious side effects and standard biopsy methods can miss cancer in a large number of patients, thus delaying treatment.The dogs have proved their worth time and again - and are accepted and used in other countries as part of the medical team - but it seems that here, the NHS (and, indeed, some cancer charities) cannot move further than the word "dog". If we were describing an electronic nose, I suspect there would be no problem. The money which could be saved by the NHS - if only its vision was not impaired - is huge.Meanwhile, other work is being done by scientists at the John van Geest Cancer Research Centre at Nottingham Trent University. The two-and-a-half-year study is aiming to identify new molecules - or "bio-markers" - in blood and urine, which hold the key to improving the diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer. The university team hopes that these molecules will provide them with vital clues about the disease and how it can be tackled more quickly and effectively.Partly funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), through the Medilink East Midlands managed Healthcare and Bioscience iNet project, the study will also involve urology experts at the University Hospitals of Leicester.Researchers will be assessing existing patient samples in conjunction with an on-going clinical trial of almost 400 patients currently undergoing biopsy and assessment.Hugh Gunn of the Prostate Cancer Support Federation said: "This research is of great value to patients. The need for vaccine and immunotherapy treatments that are affordable, unlike those currently available, is huge, especially to advanced prostate cancer patients. As biopsies carry a significant risk of infection, the need for alternative diagnostic methods, which could also possibly recognise between aggressive and none aggressive cancers, is immense."From the USA there is news of very early trials for a new drug, called Pyrvinium Pamoate, which inhibits aggressive forms of prostate cancer that are resistant to standard drugs; targeted, rather than blind, biopsies are used in the USA and beginning to be used here too; reports still abound of the benefits of 4 cups of coffee a day and the risk of too much fish oil - but I wonder how many people have taken to drinking coffee or not eating fish?More than 40,000 men are diagnosed with prostate cancer in the UK each year and there are currently 250,000 living with the disease. November - or "Movember" as it has been christened - is Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, during which clean-shaven men grow moustaches to raise money for research into prostate and testicular cancer. Gillette has teamed up with Movember and opened a pop-up barber's shop in London (Seven Dials), which gives a free trim of the moustache (and a free drink) to all those growing a "mo". The Clubhouse is hosting comedy nights and concerts too.The Movember Foundation not only seeks to raise awareness and understanding among men of their health issues, but also funds The Global Action Plan, which brings researchers out of isolation and encourages them to collaborate on specific projects. This year the Movember charity has added mental health to its list.It seems strange that Movember has forgotten the third male cancer - penile. This cancer is on the increase and, recently, I received an email from a sufferer. Knowing next to nothing about the cancer, I am extremely grateful to Rebecca Porta from Orchid - the male cancer charity - who gave me her time and helped hugely. Asda - with its well-known support of cancer charities - has joined forces with Orchid to raise funds and drive awareness of all male cancers.Perhaps Movember will think again next year?Prostate Cancer UK has specialist nurses who will speak to you in confidence - call 0800 074 8383.