The issue of elderly and infirm housebound people receiving "care" in their homes - the "care" amounting to visits that last only 15 minutes (if that) is not a new one. As the years creep up inexorably on me, it becomes a more pertinent subject.I remember, distinctly, experiencing a "care package" ten years ago. As dementia raised its ugly head in my mother-in-law, Sheffield Social Services arranged for her to be looked after at home by carers. This sounded the perfect solution and, for some time, I bathed naively in the misunderstanding that this meant she would be helped to wash and dress, given nutritious meals and the necessary medication administered by a nurse.After a few weeks of the new arrangement, I visited her. To my horror I discovered that I had misunderstood totally the word "care".It was in no way the fault of the carers. They could not have been kinder or tried harder but, with the agency (to which the Social Services farm out their housebound clients) refusing to add travelling time onto the 15 minutes per client, it meant that - all too often - my mother-in-law received just five of the allotted minutes.My visit revealed a diet of microwaved ready meals - which is the only possible way to cook anything in the time available; nothing had been cleaned; bed-linen had not been changed and none of her clothes had been washed; and most rooms, including the hall, had only one light-bulb working - because "Health and Safety" forbids carers to change light bulbs.What about the "health and safety" of the client? With no proper lighting, it was sheer good fortune that she had not tripped and fallen.To receive this paltry amount of care, the Social Services took all her pension. There was not one single properly trained person looking after her. Mistakes were made, medication was left unattended - with unfortunate results - and, worst of all, no one ever rang to give me an update on the situation.We tried a meals on wheels service so that she could eat more healthily but, due to the dementia, this did not work. We tried one of the specialist food companies which advertise nutritious microwaveable meals but receiving deliveries was a problem, so this did not work either. I was told by the agency that carers "do not clean" - not even essential areas like the kitchen and the bathroom. I booked a cleaner but she took advantage of my vulnerable mother-in-law and we had to ask her to leave - and then we changed the locks. Eventually, as the dementia grew worse - and, indeed, dangerously so - we found a care home who, at first, fed her properly and took "care" of her needs. Unfortunately, the owners of that particular home preferred their exotic holidays and weeks at The Savoy to providing a good standard of care to their residents. Finally, we found her a place in a Barchester-run home and, at last, she has a balanced diet, proper specialist care of all kinds and trained dementia nurses on site.It is absolutely no good Sandie Keene (Assistant Director of Social Services) and Norman Lamb (The Care Minister) defending the 15 minute visits. Mr Lamb said: "Short visits provide adequate time for carers to perform tasks such as administering medicines." If the various governments had not abandoned health visitors and district nurses, this is just the sort of medical job they would have done - and at the same time, checked on the general health of the patient. This would give more time to carers; cleaning and washing could be done; proper food could be prepared and cooked - in fact, "care" could be provided.It seems to me to be completely ludicrous that - at a time when more and more people want to stay in their own homes (and, indeed, in North Yorkshire, the local social services insist - for purely financial reasons - that discharged hospital patients are sent back home and not into a care home), we are left with very reduced numbers of health visitors and district nurses. Perhaps someone would email me with the rationale behind the policy?The buck stops fairly and squarely on the shoulders of the Social Services. How are these agencies chosen and are they - like far too many Care Homes - milking the system and making huge profits for themselves at the expense of their clients? The whole system needs to be rethought. The quality of life for those who are elderly or infirm should be paramount - or is it that, to the Social Services, they are merely a nuisance?Tomorrow, Parliament has a chance to change the practice by voting in favour of an amendment to the Care Bill. I hope they understand that, for those who need "care", there are many more issues to be included - all of which take considerably longer than 15 minutes.