
Follow @SharonFGrigsby

My last scroll through the opinion wire produced something that requires a quick comment before heading out for the weekend.All day the CNN feed has prominently featured Robin Roberts' ABC interview with Juror B29, Maddy, from the George Zimmerman jury. I'm sure you've already seen the headline from Maddy's remarks, which has been not only on CNN but in many newspapers. Most of the buzz has been around her conflicted feelings about the verdict and her statement, "George Zimmerman got away with murder."  Here, for example is how the Washington Post reported it. (Other newspapers were way more sensational with their coverage.)Trayvon Martin's mother, Sybrina Fulton, has already taken the remark to heart , saying in a statement: "It is devastating for my family to hear the comments from juror B29, comments which we already knew in our hearts to be true. That George Zimmerman literally got away with murder."Having seen this news roll over and over and over today, I was quite surprised, in that last check of the opinion wire, to find this William Saletan piece, which puts the Maddy interview in a very different light. Saletan notes that a careful listen to the interview shows that some of the words were "put into her mouth" and that much splicing and dicing of the interview tape is apparent.Saletan notes that you have to see the interview, not just read the words on paper. He describes it well:Nightline shows ABC interviewer Robin Roberts asking Maddy: "Some people have said, 'George Zimmerman got away with murder. How do you respond to those people who say that?'Maddy appears to reply promptly and confidently: "George Zimmerman got away with murder. But you can't get away from God."But that's not quite how the exchange happened. In the unedited video, Roberts' question is longer, with words that have been trimmed from the Nightline version, and Maddy pauses twice, for several seconds, as she struggles to answer it. " . . . George Zimmerman . . . That's - George Zimmerman got away with murder. But you can't get away from God."You have to watch her, not just read her words, to pick up her meaning. As she struggles to answer, she looks as though she's trying to reconcile the sentiment that's been quoted to her - that Zimmerman "got away with murder" - with her own perspective. So she repeats the quote and adds words of her own, to convey what she thinks: that there's a justice higher than the law, which Zimmerman will have to face. She thinks he's morally culpable, not legally guilty.Perhaps most troubling, was this passage from the Saletan essay:Maddy stands by the verdict. ABC's online story about the interview ends with Maddy asking, "Did I go the right way? Did I go the wrong way?" But that's not the whole quote. In the unedited video, she continues: "I know I went the right way, because by the law and the way it was followed is the way I went. But if I would have used my heart, I probably would have gone for a hung jury."I'll leave it to readers to judge for themselves between what's been in the sound bites and what Saletan reveals. Based on my first two readings of it, I find the editing manipulative. And on a topic that's already been as volatile as this one, that's not the least bit helpful. 