Mammograms are the subject of much controversy in the UK. There is the argument that the NHS should fund the test for younger people - because there is evidence that there are increasing numbers of breast cancers being found in those under the age of 47; not to mention the fact that there is no screening for men. Others disagree entirely with the test and argue that mammograms carry a risk of radiation (ie they might add to the possibility of developing breast cancer) and false positives which, in turn, may lead to psychological harm and unneccessary biopsies and tests.Here in the USA - where the NHS, as we know it, does not exist - non-profit or government health-care programmes are being cut back. Another result of the current economic climate is that the number of women without insurance - or access to low cost or free testing - is growing. The advice of the American Cancer Society is for all women over the age of 40 to have annual mammograms - a very different prospect to the UK's policy of every three years and between the ages of 47-72.In 2002, The Breast Cancer Site website was launched by the charity, Greater Good. Just one, free, "click" on the front page of its website buys a mammogram for a woman - or man - in need. It is funded by purchasers who buy small advertisements on the "Thank You" page for a certain length of time. At the end of that time, Greater Good tabulates the number of people who have clicked during the advertiser's time frame and bills accordingly.It is worth noting that - unlike some of the UK websites who spring up before Breast Cancer Awareness Month, purporting to sell products (mostly of dubious origin and quality) for which a percentage goes to an unstated breast cancer charity - all 100% of the advertising fees generated by readers' "clicks" goes to The National Breast Cancer Foundation. The NBCF works with hospitals and clinics throughout the USA to provide free mammograms.I asked Greater Good whether or not men are included and Rosemary Jones told me that is up to the individual medical centre as to whether or not they offer the tests to men. It is estimated by the American Cancer Society that 2,200 men will receive a breast cancer diagnosis in the USA this year - a very small number but worrying for those without insurance.This seems an eminently simple method of raising money for a good cause and, I wonder, could this not be adapted to fund cancer tests or treatment in the UK?I have yet to discover whether or not these free mammograms come with a visit to a specialist to obtain the result. As I have written on many occasions - following my own experience - simply undergoing a mammogram without the benefit of seeing a doctor for the result (other than just receiving it in the post) may also lead to false negatives. A clinical examination by a trained nurse or doctor may pick up variations in the breast - such as a piece of puckered skin, or a problem with the nipple - not seen on the mammogram or scan, (which, after all, is read by a human and mistakes can be made)and which can be a sign that all is not well. Yes, it would cost the NHS more money but, surely, it would save money in the long run. Catching the cancer early means a much cheaper outcome for the NHS.The argument still rages in the UK about the benefits of the mammogram programme - but, at least, we have screening for everyone.If you are browsing the internet, why not log on to The Breast Cancer Site and "click" to give someone in the USA a free mammogram?