A month ago I celebrated being five years down the track from my diagnosis of breast cancer. I had my last six-monthly check and all the tests were clear, so - after a long discussion with my consultant - I made the decision not to continue taking Tamoxifen for another five years. Nice has given all breast cancer patients the opportunity to do so but, taking into consideration my very early diagnosis, along with the grade and stage of the cancer, I felt that another five years of side effects (which were unpredictably bad some days) was not for me.I do not regret having taken the drug, although there were moments when the side effects were so ghastly that life was very difficult but, from my readers' emails, I was well aware that the experience for me was nowhere near as painful or as life-altering as for some other people. I felt that, if I had not gone down the Tamoxifen road and the cancer had returned, I would never have forgiven myself. However illogical that may sound to people who have made a different decision, that was how I saw the situation - and we must all make our own decisions.I have been extremely fortunate. Firstly, in my Consultant, or "The Prof" - who discovered my cancer (from a piece of puckered skin), when both a scan and mammogram showed nothing wrong - in whom I have had total and complete faith and whose surgical skills are remarkable. Secondly, in my Oncologist, who is a man of huge enthusiasm for his subject and who seems to have Zebedee's boundless energy.As I said "goodbye" and a huge "thank you" to The Prof, he told me he would be retiring by the end of the year. I thought back to that day five years ago when, after a second scan and biopsy, I returned to find out the result. So sure was I that all would be well, I went on my own. This is not to be recommended - please always take someone with you, to celebrate if all is well or to support you if the diagnosis is cancer. My Consultant delivered the news very gently but positively, as he must have done to thousands and thousands of other women and men in his career. We were all extremely lucky to have been looked after by such a man.Thankfully, The Prof will continue to serve as a Trustee of The Breast Cancer Haven - to which he referred me when, like so many others, I hit the brick wall after treatment had finished. The charity is a godsend to breast cancer patients, who can become Visitors at the time of diagnosis, during or after treatment and can remain Visitors for the rest of their lives. Of the Haven, The Prof says "The Haven has a vital role to play in the recovery from breast cancer. It encourages optimism and helps patients to see that much can be done to improve quality of life during treatment. I have no doubt that those with a positive attitude towards their disease and treatment do very much better." On the Haven's website you can find the opinions of many other eminent breast surgeons, oncologists and medical specialists associated with breast cancer.The Haven offers - free of charge - a wide range of support and complementary therapies; specialist nurses, nutritionists and exercise therapists to give advice and answer your questions; programmes and support groups to combat the physical and emotional side effects of breast cancer and its treatments.There are three Havens - with a new one in Wessex on its way - in London, Leeds and Hereford, with online, CD, DVD and telephone help too, if you cannot travel.The peace of The Havens makes them sanctuaries - and I just wish I could persuade GPs to refer their patients. I know I have written this before, but it is very frustrating to know that The Havens exist and breast cancer patients - who feel they only have the GP when they are feeling "out in the moonlight" after treatment or constant check-ups come to an end - could take advantage of all that is on offer. This can only happen if GPs are prepared to pass on The Havens' contact details, which, for some reason I cannot fathom, very few seem to have any interest in doing. It would free up GP appointments too - my surgery will only take bookings on the day now.At the moment I am in Connecticut, with a good deal to keep me occupied but, I suspect, when I return to the UK, I will experience my second "out in the moonlight" moment and then I will definitely be returning to The London Haven.In the meantime, I will be blogging about the American world of breast cancer.