In one of Alan Bennett's monologues - Nights in the Gardens of Spain - the character, played so beautifully by Penelope Wilton, talks about a GP's diagnosis of cancer. She says "It was no surprise to either of us. Doctors - huh - it is the first thing that occurs to you and the last thing that occurs to them - by which time it is too late".I have never been able to understand how it is that GPs seem so loath to identify symptoms which might point to a cancer. Emails tell me how patients have repeatedly requested referrals but to no avail. It seems that too many GPs just do not want to listen to their patients.However, Macmillan Cancer Support - with funding from the Department of Health - is targeting this very problem. The Cancer Decision Support Tool - an earlier version of which has been tested by 60 GP practices and found to be very beneficial in highlighting certain symptoms or combinations of symptoms that indicate cancer - is about to be introduced into 650 GP practices. The Tool will, electronically, assist the GP to recognise symptoms of five cancer types - Lung, Colorectal, Pancreatic, Ovarian and Oesophago-gastric.Cancer Research UK is coordinating the evaluation of the project and looking at how the tool is used, the impact on the management of patients and referrals for investigations or to specialists. Most important of all, the statement from Macmillan says that the aim is "to make GPs more aware of the importance of spotting cancer early" and the tool will "help them deal with complex decisions around referring people who might have the disease". Whilst I read that with gladness, I did wonder why GPs had not previously thought early cancer detection was important.The introduction of the Cancer Decision Support Tool has to be good news - especially following a report in the British Journal of Cancer on a study by The National Cancer Intelligence Network which suggested that almost a third of cancers in the over-70s were only discovered when the patient was admitted to hospital as an emergency. According to the study - 750,000 patients between 2006-2008 - some of these patients had been referred to AE by their GPs because their cancer symptoms were so bad.That is shocking. How was it that GPs did not diagnose these patients at an earlier point in the development of the disease? Surely not all of these people were refusing to see their GP until the symptoms became unbearable?With today's news that £100 million has been set aside for DNA "mapping", which will compare the genetic profiles of 100,000 patients - possible because the price has fallen to £1000 per sequencing - and will offer evidence as to why some patients do better than others on the same treatment, may mean we will be ending 2012 on a high and positive note. Chief Medical Officer for England, Professor Dame Sally Davies, said "The funding opens up the possibility of being able to look at the 3 billion DNA pieces in each of us so we can get a greater understanding of the complex relationship between our genes and lifestyle".DNA researchers have already discovered that breast cancer - long thought to be just one disease (and, sadly, as one of my emailers told me recently, is still considered as such by her Consultant) is, in fact, 10 entirely separate diseases. The introduction of the Oncotype DX test (not yet available on the NHS but NICE is reviewing it) is an example of gene profiling. Breast tissue is - at the moment - sent to California for testing and the results will help to determine whether or not a patient will benefit from chemotherapy and how likely is the cancer to return. Sometimes, the test results altered the already selected treatment and replaced it with something more appropriate.Personalised therapies will be the way forward for treating cancers, but early detection is essential. The Cancer Decision Support Tool will play a huge role but could it not be combined with the powerful noses of The Medical Detection Dogs? Would it not be better to rule out cancer at the first opportunity rather than leaving it to last?