The Prime Minister has launched the Dementia Friends Initiative. Backed by The Alzheimer's Society, the £2.4 million programme - for the moment in England only - plans to recruit 1 million Dementia Friends by the year 2015.The purpose is to change the way the nation thinks, talks and acts about dementia by offering the volunteers free awareness sessions to help them better understand dementia - and so enable them to be proactive in working with dementia patients, understanding them and including them in the community.Barchester Healthcare - which runs 220 care homes across the UK - has been working towards establishing Dementia Cafes at some of their care homes, the first of which was opened this year by the Prime Minister. As Barchester's Chief Executive, Mike Parsons, said to me at the recent Roses Media Awards: "The new Dementia Friends need somewhere to meet and socialise - which is the whole point of the Prime Minister's initiative".Dementia - of which Alzheimer's is just one type - is taking its toll on our longer-living community, although figures show that younger people are developing the condition too. Women sufferers make up two thirds of the 800,000 known cases in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and future projections expect the figures to double in the next 40 years.Shockingly, only 41 per cent of people with dementia receive a diagnosis - as I know only too well, having struggled for years with various GPs who refuse to give my mother-in-law the diagnosis, or indeed any diagnosis except, latterly, to wave a hand and airily say "It's dementia" - which means that far too many people are missing out on the opportunity of medication which might be able slow the progress of the condition. It also means that family and friends are left to cope without any professional or emotional support.Figures from The Alzheimer's Society state that the cost to the UK of dementia is already £23 billion but the value of the work done by family carers is a staggering £8 billion - however, the quality of life for these families is varied and the Alzheimer Society's research found that most are not living well and these are the families of people diagnosed with dementia. Goodness knows how many people are caring for a family member without any help at all.The prospect of admitting to a "mental illness" is still a stigma in some parts of the UK - is that part of the reason that so few are actually diagnosed?It is difficult enough for people diagnosed with cancer to accept that friends - and sometimes family - cannot cope with the diagnosis and simply fade away. Imagine how much more difficult it must be following a dementia diagnosis.I watched my own mother - whose vascular dementia struck her, literally, over night - as she struggled to understand what was happening to her and why so few people visited her. The truth was that her friends - most of whom were over 80 - had not stopped loving her, it was simply that it was all too close to home. Witnessing my mother's desperate daily struggle against the condition opened the possibility of the same thing happening to them - and reminded them of their own mortality. One day, as I arrived at The Barchester Home where the nurses were looking after mum, I met a good friend of hers coming out weeping. When she saw me she said "I'm so sorry Judith, I simply cannot bear to see your mother so tormented by this ghastly condition. It is too upsetting and I won't be coming again". Whilst I understood completely and knew mum would never have wanted anyone to be affected in this way, it explained what had happened to so many of the friends she used to know.However, there was one couple who lived in the same block of flats as mum - and had brought mum to me on the day the dementia struck - who never failed to visit her, to bring little treats and altogether to behave with my mother no differently to the way they had always done. They continued with the gossip, kept her in touch with their news and joined in with birthday teas or weekly coffees. I will never be able to thank them enough. They were true dementia friends - before David Cameron even considered the idea - and I am sure they are thousands of others who would be equally as perfect. Please log on to the Dementia Friends website if you would like to sign up and join the project.Coming to terms with my mother's initial condition, The Charles Bonnet Syndrome (which can develop when 60 per cent of a person's eyesight disappears through macular disease and which produces hallucinations of all kinds - but is not a form of dementia) followed by the onset of vascular dementia, was heartbreaking. It was clear she needed 24 hour care and reassurance from trained nurses - and this she received. We were extremely fortunate to find a Nursing Home of excellent quality, whose Matron gave me advice and supported me through the last 18 months of Mum's life. This was a stroke of luck because I had no idea where to go for help.Now, with more knowledge, I would seek the assistance of an Admiral Nurse. These nurses, supported by Dementia UK, offer a national telephone helpline (0845 257 9406); a fact-sheet for downloading, which gives general advice about services and entitlements for carers and people with dementia; and - as Lucy Roberts from Dementia UK told me - can work with families "throughout the whole dementia journey".Clearly, there is a further blog post to be written about Admiral Nurses and the work they do. If you are happy to share your experiences of the service, please let me know - email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.ukIf there is no Admiral Nursing Service in your area, please call the above number or email direct@dementiauk.org