Despite so much being written and broadcast about cancer, from the rattling of collection tins to mail shots and television commercials - it would seem that much-needed information is still not reaching everyone. There are too many people unaware of the symptoms of cancer or where to go for help and support after diagnosis. It is clear that many of the cancer support charities - who might be considered household names - have still not made their mark on the whole of the general public.Recently, I wrote a "reminder" blog post about the five symptoms to look for - not just a lump - when checking for breast cancer. I was very surprised at the sneering comments l received and would reiterate that not everyone is able to avail him or herself of the necessary information. Yes, we would hope that, eventually, cancer awareness will be part of everyone's education - but, as yet, it is not.When I heard from Macmillan Cancer Support that the charity has joined forces with the high-street chemist, Boots UK, and have trained 500 Boots Macmillan "information pharmacists" - along with 4,100 members of the Boots UK health care team, who have received bespoke training "to enable them to understand and have good conversations with people affected by cancer" - I inquired further.Rowena, from Macmillan, explained how the service works. No appointment is necessary and your conversation will be held in a private consulting room within the Boots pharmacy area. The information pharmacist will be able to point you in the right direction for local support services, groups and networks or the closest Macmillan support centre, often in the large hospitals, will be able to advise on medication side effects and offer complementary therapies to ease some of them; will explain anything you do not understand about your diagnosis, medication or treatment; and will offer support for those who just need someone to reassure them they are not alone.As yet, not all branches of Boots have these specially trained pharmacists, but it is an ever-growing programme - spurred on by the current figure of 2 million people in the UK, estimated to be living with or beyond cancer, which is anticipated to increase to 4 million by 2030. By then the pressure on cancer services - ie information and support - will be enormous.I spoke to Angela Chalmers, a pharmacist, who has been working in several branches of Boots in North London. She is hugely enthusiastic about her new role and gave me three examples of people she has been able to help over the past weeks.With an implant of Zoladex in his arm - to reduce his testosterone level - a man being treated for prostate cancer felt able to talk to Angela about the horrible "menopausal" symptoms he was experiencing. Angela reassured him that these symptoms were entirely due to the medication and directed him to a stronger antiperspirant and a facial cooling spray. More importantly, Angela suggested he returned to his GP - who had never explained the side effects to him in the first place - and discuss the possibility of a reduction of the dose or a change in the medication. Angela said "This man had never spoken to anyone about what was happening to him, was acutely embarrassed about the symptoms and was very grateful for the chance to talk about it."Another example was a lady with a skin rash across her face who came and asked for advice as to what it might be. It had been a very sunny day and Angela thought it looked like a photosensitivity rash. She asked about medication and the lady explained that after breast cancer treatment she had been prescribed Herceptin. Although photosensitivity is not listed as a side effect, the drug is known to react with the sun. (If this side effect is well-known by pharmacists, I wonder why is not listed - or why the prescribing doctor did not warn the lady? Mind you, far too many side effects are not accepted by either the manufacturers of cancer drugs or the oncologists.) Angela suggested antihistamine, moisturiser and sun protection but, even more importantly, discovered that although the lady was clear of cancer, she was finding life very difficult, was stressed and alone. Angela directed her to the nearest Macmillan support centre - the lady had never heard of Macmillan.Thirdly, a young man was picking up some painkillers for his mum, who had cancer. Angela began to talk to him and found that he was his mum's sole carer, was trying to do a full-time job and was really struggling. In discussing the medication, Angela asked whether or not the GP had prescribed laxatives, which are needed with the particular painkiller. "No" was the answer. Angela was able to counsel the young man and make positive suggestions to help him and make his mum more comfortable.Every cancer charity states that "no one should be alone with cancer", yet none of these three people knew where to turn for help. Angela and I talked about the overwhelming need for people with cancer to have a support system to help them through the difficult time. I was able to recommend The Haven for those with breast cancer. Not knowing of it, Angela added it gratefully to her list of recommended cancer support centres and promised to pass on the name to all the other pharmacists in her area. That, however, is just a drop in the ocean and there is a huge need to ensure that all pharmacists - and GPs - are aware of local support centres and specialist support networks, particularly for the young and those alone.Angela is passionate about helping cancer patients and feels that she is in the unique position of being able to give time, as well as medical advice. The positive impact which Angela and her colleagues can bring to patients will make an enormous difference to those people who seem to be slipping through unnoticed. If you know of a local support group, please visit your nearest Boots Macmillan Information Pharmacist and register the name. It will be of huge help to people in your area. If you find your local Boots does not have one of these specially trained pharmacists yet, please encourage the staff to enrol on the course. As Angela said: "I have the chance to show cancer patients that they are not alone."Meanwhile, perhaps GPs might spend less time assessing how much their practice is worth and more time giving patients the full details about the side effects of the medication they have been prescribed - and they, too, should be able to point patients in the direction of the relevant support centres. I have yet to see evidence of The Haven poster I left at my GP's surgery. Why are these doctors so reluctant to give this information? Could they not have a dedicated nurse or receptionist (although most of the latter would have to be retrained to leave dragon tendencies behind) who would make certain that no patient with a serious illness leaves the surgery without knowing where to turn for support? Are these GPs really looking after their patients or are they looking after their incomes?