Breast Cancer Awareness Month glides seamlessly into "Movember" (when men are encouraged to grow moustaches to help raise awareness of prostate cancer), but before we leave BCAM behind it is worth reminding both women and men of the five most common signs or symptoms which might herald a visit to your GP.Breakthrough Breast Cancer - the breast cancer research charity founded by Bill Freedman in memory of his actress wife Toby Robins, who died from the disease in 1986 - has a page on its website called Touch, Look, Check, which explains what to look for and much more besides. Alternatively, Breakthrough offers a text service. Simply send a text to 84424 with the letters TLC as the message and someone will ring you to arrange for a Breakthrough Breast Cancer information pack to be sent to you. The pack describes Touch, Look, Check in more detail but, briefly, the five signs or symptoms are:A lump or lumpy area in the breast, upper chest or armpits - which might not be seen but might be felt - or an unusual pain in the same area.Skin Texture - puckering or dimpling of the skin, a change of colour, shape or size.Change in appearance or direction of the nipple.Discharge from the nipple.Rash or crusting of any part of the breast/chest area.My own breast cancer was spotted by my consultant - a puckering of the skin, which I had not noticed because, although I checked myself, I never raised my arms above my head in front of a mirror. I suspect that if I had noticed it - and being totally unaware of symptoms other than lumps - I would have assumed it was part of the skin ageing process. There was no obvious lump to be seen but, hidden away underneath, was the tumour.Lumps are what we all think of when breast cancer is mentioned but Cancer Research UK's website tells us that nine out of ten breast lumps are benign - however, every lump needs to be checked.Whilst I believe strongly that women should accept and attend their breast screening invitations, I also believe that clinical examinations should be offered at the same time. Changes in skin texture, nipple discharge or a rash - which might be ignored by the patient and misdiagnosed by the GP - will be recognised by a breast specialist doctor or nurse.There are many different types of breast cancer, all of which require their own form of surgery and treatment - although a question mark now seems to hang over whether or not every type of breast cancer should be treated. Even the doctors appear unable to agree on the subject, which is simply adding to the anxiety and confusion already felt by those diagnosed with breast cancer. Surely this is the exact opposite of the panel's intention and I think it is, at least, unhelpful for eminent medics to write articles with frightening allusions to the dangers of some forms of treatment. Whilst we need information, those of us who have already undergone radiotherapy or chemotherapy - or both - or who have very little choice in the matter now, are very vulnerable and if anyone is feeling particularly in need of support, please contact either The Haven or Breast Cancer Care for a more balanced view.We are all different - some people would rather not know which particular kind of breast cancer has been diagnosed, will trust the doctors and follow the path laid out for them. Some people would like to know but would choose to opt out of surgery and treatment altogether. And some will not get that far because they will not accept their screening invitation. Everyone is entitled to decide what happens to their own body and should not be bullied either way. However, if we ask for it, we must be given all the information available. Therefore, I was shocked to hear from a patient, attending a breast clinic at a North Yorkshire hospital, that when she asked which type of breast cancer she had, the female consultant said "breast cancer is breast cancer". Oh no it is not.You may believe that alternative therapy, not conventional medicine, is the answer to a cancer diagnosis but, either way, please keep checking to give yourselves a chance to make that decision - and perhaps text TLC to Breakthrough Breast Cancer for a pack so that both sexes have the information to hand as a reminder to Touch, Look, Check.