1 October brings with it the start of Breast Cancer Awareness Month and an abundance of pink. Whether or not you agree with the "pink lobby", there is no doubt that the use of it focuses our minds on the mission of the breast cancer charities.Looking at my Twitter feed, I am constantly amazed at the number of events taking place for all the charities. Will we, at some point, run out of people prepared to walk, run, climb mountains, skydive, abseil - you name it? Or, more to the point, will those people run out of donors for their fundraising activities? It is extremely difficult to undertake to raise money on an annual basis by asking the same people to put their hands in their pockets.However, judging by the huge success of Children in Need, which seems to raise more money each year, we are an extremely generous nation - even when money is tight and the financial future uncertain. This is good news for the charities, who do such magnificent work raising funds for the research and support systems they offer.The pink theme is taken up by Breast Cancer Campaign who would like everyone to join together and spend 26 October "Wearing it Pink" and raising money for them - whether you are work colleagues, school chums, university friends, factory or office workers. The charity is celebrating its tenth "Wear it Pink" day and the money raised will go to fund its research projects - like the Breast Cancer Campaign Tissue Bank - which have the greatest potential to save and improve lives and, ultimately, find a cure for breast cancer.Early detection and treatment of breast cancer is vital to ensure that people have a greater chance of beating the disease. At the moment, women under the age of 49 (47 in some areas) are not eligible for NHS breast screening unless there is a family history of the disease. However, NICE's guidelines now recommend that this sort of screening should only take place as part of research studies.One important piece of work funded by Breast Cancer Campaign is Professor Gareth Evans' clinical trial at St. Mary's Hospital London. This trial is studying thousands of women, to see just how effective mammography is at detecting breast cancer in these high risk women between the ages of 34 and 40. If the results are positive, perhaps the number of women who lose their lives to breast cancer each year, (currently running at 12,000) will be reduced - only, of course, if NICE agrees to routine screening.Dr. John Maher, consultant immunologist at King's College London, is being funded by Breast Cancer Campaign to develop new and less toxic treatments for people whose cancer has spread and are now living with secondary breast cancer. As I have written previously, immunology is becoming the new way forward - and an alternative to the toxicity of chemotherapy. The treatment uses the patient's own immune system to attack the cancer cells, killing them but leaving other cells unharmed.More work is being done to differentiate between good and bad fats and the effect they may, or may not, have on the development of breast cancer. The bad fats have been shown to encourage the growth of cancer cells but it is thought that good fats - like fish oils - may protect against some cancers. Breast Cancer Campaign is funding Dr. Colin Palmer, Professor of Pharmacogenomics at the University of Dundee, and his results may, once and for all dispel any confusion and show us the way to choosing healthier foods.The Campaign's logo is a piece of a jigsaw puzzle and the charity hopes that, one day, the last piece will be found and with it the cure for the many different types of the disease.