The results of the independent review commissioned by Cancer Research UK and the Department of Health into the benefits of breast screening are published today in The Lancet.The review states that, in its estimation, "while screening prevents about 1,300 breast cancer deaths per year, it can lead to about 4,000 women each year (aged 50-70) in the UK having treatment for a condition that would never have troubled them".In a joint statement from Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Breast Cancer Campaign and Breast Cancer Care, the three charities said: "This independent review has provided much-needed clarity - screening can save lives. This is good news for women as they can now be assured that breast screening can be beneficial".I must make the point here that there is no screening at all for breast cancer in men - as yet.There are many reasons why women do not attend their mammogram appointments. Fear of the actual procedure and a negative result, unawareness of the disease and, if my commenters are right, a belief that the small amount of radiation involved will, in itself, produce breast cancer. Over-diagnosis has crept up on us as another reason. However, as it is not yet possible to determine whether or not a breast cancer tumour will be "potentially fatal", I am somewhat baffled as to how the review arrives at the figure of 4,000 women?Whilst I can understand completely - and totally support - anyone who, having been diagnosed with breast cancer, determines his or her own treatment path. Surely it is better to know what is going on in your body? When breast cancer strikes, not everyone wants to take the conventional route of surgery, radiotherapy and possible chemotherapy, but will opt for more non-interventional and non-toxic "alternative" therapies - but, unless you attend for screening, you may never have the opportunity to choose.In the UK, we are incredibly fortunate that we have the opportunity to be screened for breast cancer. There are still millions of women in countries with no available health service for whom breast cancer will be diagnosed only when it is far too late for successful treatment.I know from my male readers how envious they are that women have the chance to be tested for these cancers. Prostate cancer research is working hard to find a simple and accurate test for this most common of male cancers.As I have written before - if my surgeon had given me the choice of leaving the tumour in situ and "waiting to see what happens" or removing it pronto, I would have chosen the latter option in a nanosecond. For me, the tumour was an alien invading my body and I was prepared to do anything to be rid of it. I would not have been able to live comfortably with it - particularly not knowing if or when it might spread.Whilst another group looks at the information women receive when invited for their screening appointments, I hope great care is taken in the wording because, if we are not careful, women will be deterred from taking up the invitations and more harm than good will come of this review. It would be a huge shame if women are now more confused than ever and we find ourselves in the same merry-go-round of contrasting medical research results as we did (actually, still do) with the HRT debate.