World Cancer Day is next Monday - 4th February. Until this year, I have to confess that I knew next to nothing about the annual event. Very little information came my way and it seems to have been barely noticed.However, this year Maggie's - the cancer support centres found in many specialist cancer hospitals - has drawn my attention to the event. World Cancer Day's initiator was The Union for International Cancer Control. Based in Geneva, UICC has over 770 members from 155 countries, runs conferences, congresses, education, training and outreach task-forces to cover every aspect of global cancer. The website describes UICC as an "international professional non-government organisation dedicated to the global control of cancer". and, to that end, has a declaration of 11 targets. This year's World Cancer Day centres on target number 5, "To dispel damaging myths and misconceptions". They are:Myth 1: Cancer is just a health issue.
Truth: Cancer is not just a health issue. It has wide-reaching social, economic, development, and human rights implications.Myth 2: Cancer is a disease of the wealthy, elderly and developed countries.
Truth: Cancer is a global epidemic. It affects all ages and socio-economic groups, with developing countries bearing a disproportionate burden.Myth 3: Cancer is a death sentence.
Truth: Many cancers that were once considered a death sentence can now be cured and for many more people, their cancer can be treated effectively.Myth 4: Cancer is my fate. the cancer support centres found in many specialist cancer hospitals
Truth: With the right strategies, a third of the most common cancers can be prevented.Maggie's is reflecting the myth-busting theme of the UICC to highlight its own advice on how to cope with a diagnosis of cancer. Every two minutes someone in the UK is told they have cancer and, with the average person only being able to recall about a quarter of that diagnosis, there is a greater need than ever to help clarify what this diagnosis means - and that is exactly the role of the staff at Maggie's.Laurie Lee - CEO of Maggie's - said "People often visit Maggie's shortly after being told they have cancer. At this point they find it difficult to know where to turn or what to do. Many people still believe that cancer means an automatic death sentence and we need to work harder to make that less of an assumption in society".The advice given by Maggie's is:
1. Take someone with you to your hospital results appointment - for moral support, to help you remember what the medical team says and to ask questions.
2. If possible, ask to record the meeting on a Dictaphone or mobile phone.
3. Write down everything (including the names of the medical team), your thoughts and fears, your treatment plan and anything you do not understand. That way you will remember to ask the relevant questions.
4. Get as many facts about your cancer as possible. What it is called, where it is, if it has spread and how it will be treated.
5. Avoid Google. There is too much misinformation masquerading as fact. Every case is different.
6. Keep up an open and honest communication with family and friends. Talking about the situation will allow you all to draw the necessary strength.
7. If you are someone who would like to chat to others in similar situations, find a support group - this is where Maggie's comes into its own. Often people find it is only those who have experienced a cancer diagnosis who will fully understand, will give you insight into what to expect and will be happy to share their experiences.
8. Work out your own ways of coping - perhaps time alone, relaxation techniques, visiting a counsellor, going on long walks or keeping a journal. Anything to keep yourself calm and in control.
9. Work out your priorities. Determine what is truly important in your life ad focus more of your time and energy on that.Maggie's centres (for your nearest centre, log onto their website) are there for people with any type of cancer, no appointments are necessary and there you will find others experiencing cancer as well as emotional, practical and social support from Maggie's specially trained staff. One to one sessions are entirely possible too. Maggie's also has an online centre to reach people globally.In New York on 4th February the Empire State Building will be lit blue and orange, and if you log onto their website you will find an interactive map with all the global events taking place to mark the day.One such is in London. Rebecca Wilson felt like I did about World Cancer Day. She said "What is the point of having a world anything day if no one knows when it is?" Determined to raise awareness of the day and raise money for Cancer Research UK, Rebecca has put together an evening of music and the spoken word. Musicians from Nat King Cole to George Harrison, writers like John Diamond and Harold Pinter and great entertainers like Dean Martin and Roy Castle were all felled by cancer. London based acts, Hannah White, Don Mercy, The Freewheel and Brooke Sharkey will pay tribute to some of the great artists no longer with us.The concert is at 7.30 at St. Pancras Old Church, Pancras Road, London and the tickets are £10 each - visit this website for details. The Union of International Cancer Control launched World Cancer Day "so that the world can unite together in the fight against the global cancer epidemic". We must make sure it is not passed over in the UK next year. If you are using the day this year - or are planning something for 2014's World Cancer Day - to raise awareness or money for a cancer charity, please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk