Every time I write a blog post about breast cancer - its symptoms, new research, where to find support, or the launch of an appeal for money - I receive emails and comments which reflect the frustration and anger of the male sex, who attack me for not raising the profile of male cancers and who declare that too much money is going to breast cancer. Of course, men can develop breast cancer too and I am always careful to include that information in my blog posts.Of the cancers exclusive to men, prostate is the most common. It is the one about which my emailers and commentators are most vociferous. Whilst I understand completely that there is a massive discrepancy between the amount spent per case diagnosed on breast cancer (£853) and prostate cancer (£417), I wonder just how much time and effort are being used by the very men who complain their cancers are being forgotten. "Essexinnit" (who left a comment below my last blog post about Breast Cancer Campaign's evening at No 10) wrote "I look forward to reading about a similar event to help with testicular or prostate cancer. Oh what am I saying? Male cancers just aren't sexy enough are they".No, Mr. Essexinnit, that is not the reason that there are more events and fund-raisers for breast cancer. The reason is that women have taken the problem of breast cancer by its throat and worked hard to promote awareness, support and research into the disease. Men are not so keen to acquire information about symptoms and tend to assume the inconvenience will disappear if ignored. Mr. Essexinnit is but one of a huge number of men who moan but do nothing to advance their cause - and "sexy" is not a word any of my fellow breast cancer sufferers would use about the disease.I would hope that my emailers and commenters are now aware that Prostate Cancer UK has just launched a huge campaign to raise awareness and funds for more research. Called The Sledgehammer Fund, it is fronted by the comedian, Bill Bailey and the impressionist Jon Culshaw. Hard hitting television commercials from the two will hope to grab the attention of the male sex and hammer home the need for vigilance about possible symptoms. It is not a sign of weakness to consult your GP. It is a sign of a responsible adult.Owen Sharp, CEO of Prostate Cancer UK, said "Prostate Cancer is the UK's best kept worst secret. This is a call to arms. Men deserve better" - with which I agree entirely but men have to step forward in droves and join those already working to find the first necessary step, which is a better diagnostic test. At the moment the disease is poorly understood, the tests are not good enough and the treatments can have life-changing effects.If we carry on as we are, it is predicted that prostate cancer will be the most common cancer of all by 2030.However, despite what too many men think, there is work being done. The Prostate Cancer Support Federation which is a patient-led charity is funding a trial, called RISKMAN, to demonstrate that screening - using additional criteria in combination with the imperfect PSA test, such as urinary symptoms, ethnicity and family history - will be able to detect the disease without unnecessary biopsies, which are, in themselves, not a reliable proof of cancer. For more information please log onto The Federation's website, where you will find more information about conferences, workshops and support groups. For the latter, click on "Find a support group near you".Prostate Cancer UK has over 70 support groups listed on its website - click on "We can help", then on "Find a support group" - plus access to Specialist Nurses (call 0800 074 8383) and news of the most recent research results funded by the charity. Prostate Cancer UK may be led by a man but I notice there are a good number of women working for it - perhaps women are more diligent and focused when it comes to pushing a concept and a cause?Busy promoting cancer awareness among men is The Crusaders RFC - players have either had cancer or have had a close family member with the disease. As well as playing and enjoying the sport of rugby, players experiencing cancer support each other. As their website says "Quite simply, men are dying from their own ignorance and are scared to get help even when they know they have a problem, pretending instead to bury their head in the sand like an ostrich and hope it will go away." Mark Dainter from Crusaders told me that the club is now offering PSA tests - using the most sophisticated machines - pitchside, with the added encouragement to visit the GP.The Club Ambassador is Eric Peters, former Scotland Captain who played for Bath and Harlequins. Eric had testicular cancer and says "Until I had completed my chemotherapy treatment, I was embarrassed to even tell my team mates about it".That is the other problem - because cancers such as colorectal, prostate, penile and testicular form in parts of the male anatomy to which men find difficulty referring, they often say nothing until the symptoms simply cannot be ignored.Another organisation for cancer in men which offers support services, pioneers research and promotes awareness is Orchid, whose website details symptoms and encourages men to visit their GP. Focusing entirely on male-specific cancers - prostate, penile and testicular - Orchid's research unit is based at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in London and its researchers work closely with many other large cancer research organisations.Lastly - and I think most importantly - is the new work being done by The Medical Detection Dogs. These dogs are trained to smell prostate cancer from a tiny urine sample and breast cancer from the patient's breath. The dogs have already proved their worth in Italy and Japan - where, as I wrote in a previous post, the medical profession is totally in awe of the ability of the dogs' noses - and are slowly winning round the rather more narrow minds of the UK clinicians and researchers. Cancer Research UK are "very interested in the scientific approach to the Medical Detection Dogs' work" - and the renowned cancer specialist, Professor Karol Sikora, told me "Specialist dogs trained to detect the odour of cancer volatiles could provide valuable information that will assist in the development of new ways to detect and diagnose cancer in the future. Dogs with their incredible sense of smell can detect minute odours which are now understood to be associated with many cancers. Hopefully, using the knowledge the dogs provide, scientists will be able to develop an electronic system which can mimic the dog's nose and open the way for new, non-invasive methods of screening for cancer. The dog will then be able to put his feet up ..."That is the point. These dogs will make invasive testing redundant. Dr. Iain Frame, Director of Research at Prostate Cancer UK agrees. He said "We welcome research which explores new methods to accurately detect prostate cancer early via non-invasive means. Exploring what odour is being detected by the dogs could be extremely exciting and has the potential to translate into real benefits for men, particularly if it leads us to new methods of detecting differences between aggressive and non-aggressive tumours."The two Medical Detection Dogs trained in prostate cancer are about to undertake a double blind study for detection of this cancer by sample sniffing. Dr. Claire Guest, who heads up the charity and trains the dogs, told me "It would help to have more funding because then we could offer support to the nurses collecting the samples for our study. At the moment, the nurses are really busy and there is a bottleneck in the sample collection."Surely there must be an easy solution to this problem? Dr. Guest and her dogs are eager to start on the study. Any ideas would be most welcome. Please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk or donate on the Medical Detection Dogs website.The Movember Foundation has announced that it will be spending £25 million on research in the next three years; Blue September has a website which encourages support for their "Blue" Fridays and September campaigns and also details the most common symptoms of which men should be aware; and money raised by Blue September will be used by the Urology Foundation to support its work to improve the diagnosis, treatment and management of the prostate, bladder and kidney cancer and to raise men's awareness of these cancers and other related issues.I hope I have reassured the male Doubting Thomases that there are people working hard for their benefit - be it researchers, support and sport groups, information via websites or specially trained nurses - but men need to rally under the male equivalent of "pink" - does it have to be "blue"? - and work as hard as women have done to raise the position of prostate cancer research from 20th in the table to match that of breast cancer, which stands at number seven.