NICE's statement that "A family history of breast, ovarian or related cancer significantly increases a person's risk of developing breast cancer at a younger age", introduces its draft guideline suggesting that people who fall into this category should have an annual mammogram, and a course of tamoxifen to catch the cancer early and/or to prevent it appearing."Related" cancers? Which do they mean? I rang NICE but no one could give me an answer, yet they put out the statement. They suggested I rang the Medicine and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency - which I did but the recorded message told me the office was closed. I called the out-of-hours mobile number but it rang and rang. It seems extraordinary that NICE could provide no details and MHRA have closed the office on this particular day.If the BRAC1 and BRAC2 genes mutate, these can be passed down the family with an increased risk of developing ovarian, prostate and pancreatic cancers. Is it pancreatic cancer that is the "related cancer"? I will let you know when I have the answer.Whilst I think it is excellent that NICE is focusing on the need to categorise people with a possibility of inherited cancer, I can hear the critics of mammography gearing up to make their points about the possibilities of harmful radiation causing cancer. I know, from my own experience and from the many emails I receive, that taking tamoxifen comes with side effects which - although they differ with each person - are not pleasant, can be very debilitating and, for a few, offer the risk of blood clots. However, figures suggest that if tamoxifen were taken by 1000 at-risk people, there would be 20 fewer breast cancers among the group.My first thought was: "at what point in the person's life would the course of tamoxifen begin and for how long would it be prescribed?" Claire from Breakthrough Breast Cancer explained to me that the course would never be longer than five years and the drug would only be for people over the age of 30. This means there would need to be a balancing act between a woman's desire to have children and taking the drug as a preventive measure. Obviously it would need to be patient-led but the decision as to when to begin the 5 years will not be an easy one.My second thought was how glad I am that men are included in this guideline - for the first time. The figures for breast cancer in men have jumped from 300 to 400 per year and, as one of my correspondents told me, is definitely moving upwards.My third thought was that, if the NHS would back the work of the Medical Detection Dogs, no mammograms would be necessary. If the prospect of sniffer dogs does not appeal to them, then please put some money into the work being done to build an electronic "nose". A combination of wider access to genetic testing and the work of the dogs would, inevitably, bring about earlier diagnoses, be much cheaper and less invasive.As neither of the two suggested drugs, tamoxifen nor raloxifene, are licensed in the UK for preventive prescribing - even though they have been used in the US for some considerable time - it will take a while for a new licence to be sought and approved. However, if taking tamoxifen - with all its attendant side effects - prevents people deciding to have a double mastectomy "just in case", that has to be a result.