When I was a child, going to the theatre was an exciting and enchanting experience which - if you were lucky - might involve an ice-cream in the interval and - if you were really lucky - a box of chocolates to share during the performance. Best bib and tucker were the order of the day and there were firm family rules about visiting the loo before the show began and not running in and out during the performance.I grew up and made my way as an actress.  Being on the other side of the tabs (the front curtain), the rustling of sweet wrappers and the opening of chocolate boxes - not to mention the discussions which often went with the choice of candy - could  be a huge distraction to the performers and audience alike. By then, best bib and tucker were losing out to jeans and T-shirts, apart from the matinees, where Sunday best still prevailed among the local pensioners.Pantomime was always the exception.  The audience being full of children, it was taken for granted that their chatter would continue throughout and, indeed, some of their comments made perfect additions to the script. The children were sure to come dressed in - what they considered to be - their best, just in case there was a chance to be invited onto the stage.Last week I went to see a friend play Principal Girl in the pantomime in York.  It was a matinee with a full house - as is always the case in York. Sitting to my left was a young man in his middle 20s.  He arrived at his seat with a plastic glass of beer and a bag of "gummy worms". Back in the seventies, the only theatre to allow alcohol to be drunk during the show was The Players - under the arches at Charing Cross, where music hall reigned supreme. Now it seems to be the norm..The young man steadily drank his beer and ate his "worms". Then, after about 45 minutes, he stood up and left the dress circle - thereby forcing the seven people sitting next to him to stand and allow him through, while they, in turn, obstructed the view of the people in the row behind. A couple of minutes later he returned with - to my astonishment - another plastic glass of beer. The whole exercise was repeated again. - with the added risk of the full glass of beer landing on the heads of the people in the row in front.  During the second act, he disappeared for some minutes - presumably as a result of the beer!Apparently he was with his family who all appeared to think this was normal behaviour and none challenged him. It seemed perfectly clear to me that he was treating the theatre as he would his own television set at home. I suspect he even searched for the remote control to pause the show while he attended to his alcoholic needs!Is it very old-fashioned to believe that we should be able to sit without eating or drinking for - in this case - an hour and a quarter until the interval? Does everything we do have to include food or drink? A train journey seems to comprise constant snacking - what happened to the delicately cut picnic sandwiches, which were produced at mealtimes and not before or between? Cafes and restaurants are full throughout the day - in our local Yorkshire garden centre, the queue for cooked-on-the-premises lunch begins, weaving its way among the coffee and cake participants, at 10.30.The York pantomime was traditional with no "celebrities" - most of the cast return each year to reprise their roles - and was sold out before it opened.  The bar at the theatre was full before the show, in the interval and when I left for the stage door. That is, of course, excellent for the takings of the theatre - pantomime is often the financial saving grace for regional theatres - but is that not enough? Is there now no such thing as theatre etiquette?  Is it no longer considered important to think of others sitting round you - or the performers?As I journeyed home, I pondered - is a visit to the theatre just an extension of the TV or computer? There is, as yet, no way to pause live entertainment - but who knows what might be possible 50 years from now.Happy New Year.