When I wrote my blog post about Macmillan joining with Boots the Chemist to provide training for their pharmacists, who would then be equipped to give their customers cancer information, emotional support and point them to local support groups, it became clear that not everyone is aware of the work of the large cancer charities, let alone the local ones. Where to go for help and support after diagnosis, after surgery, or after bereavement are much-needed pieces of information.Founded in Petersfield, fifteen and a half years ago, to serve the town and surrounding areas is a small charity called The Rosemary Foundation. Set up by local nurses from the - now closed - Sue Ryder Home, the foundation works in conjunction with Macmillan. The 13 nurses and health care support workers are trained in palliative and end-of-life care. Nurse-led and patient-based, the team take their experience to people who have chosen to end their lives in their own homes. Nursing care is given twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week, along with a counselling service for patients, their family and friends.The terminal cancer "journey" can be a long one - years sometimes - and the allocated nurse will give emotional and psychological support from the moment of diagnosis and, when the times comes, will give hands-on nursing and, afterwards, be there for the first few months of bereavement. The foundation also offers a bereavement support group which meets twice a month for the first year.The Rosemary Foundation receives no statutory funding and relies entirely on private donations. Such is the enthusiasm for the foundation and its work, that its website is full of examples of people fund-raising in any way possible.Reading about The Rosemary Foundation reminded me of an idea which I had some years ago and which I would like to bring to fruition. This will not be the only small charity offering support for cancer patients in its local area but, whilst I am sure that the Petersfield GPs know about the Foundation and refer their patients, I suspect that not all UK GPs know of their local charity-supplied support services or groups. Certainly, in London, I know that The Haven (for breast cancer sufferers) is not as well known a facility as it should be - despite the charity working hard to spread the word.My idea is to collect the names of all types of cancer support groups in the UK - however large or small - and make them interactively available for anyone, in any part of the UK, who finds themselves in need of specialist nursing, cancer information and/or explanation, counselling, complementary therapies, bereavement counselling, hair, clothes and beauty advice after surgery and during chemotherapy, exercise - like dragon boat racing, yoga etc or just chatting with a group of people who meet once in a while to lend support to each other as they progress through the cancer journey.It is not always possible to travel to a town or city to find this sort of support system and wonderful places like Maggie's tend to be linked to specific hospitals.If you are involved with a support group or you know of one locally - that you are happy to recommend - please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk and help me to build the database for the whole of the UK. I was shocked to learn that, despite all the advertising by the large cancer charities, people can be left to fight the disease on their own. I understand completely that, for some, the disease is a private matter but, for those who look for support and advice, access to a local group or organisation might make all the difference and this would be a quick way to find the appropriate help.