This week there has been much media interest in the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (Nice)'s refusal to recommend the drug Abiraterone for use by the NHS. Nice has made this decision despite acknowledging that Abiraterone has proved itself able to extend the life of men in the final stages of prostate cancer by up to four months and, at the same time, improve the man's quality of life by reducing symptoms such as pain and fatigue. The drug is given at the point in treatment when the patient stops responding to hormone therapy or docetaxel (the chemotherapy drug). Abiraterone is taken in tablet form, four times a day, with the steroid prednisolone.Professor Peter Johnson, Cancer Research UK's chief clinician, said "This decision makes no sense. Since it became available in the UK, Abiraterone has been one of the most requested treatments from the Cancer Drugs Fund. This is because patients and doctors value the extra months of life it can give, if prostate cancer returns after chemotherapy".Whilst I understand all the arguments about cost-effectiveness of drugs, there are three factors which I do not understand.First of all, the reason given for refusing the use of Abiraterone was that too many men would qualify. However, if Nice had put Abiraterone into the category of "end of life" medication, it would have been another matter entirely. Since 2009 Nice has been willing to approve more expensive drugs than Abiraterone for people with incurable diseases, who are reaching the end of their lives. It seems that the classification was a deliberate policy by Nice, and it should be ashamed of its action.It is worth noting that Janssen - the pharmaceutical company which manufactures Abiraterone - estimates that 3,300 men per year will be eligible for the drug. There are no government figures for men with advanced prostate cancer but Nice chooses to disagree with Janssen's figure, claiming there will be many more men who qualify for the drug.Secondly, Cancer Research UK - to which millions of people donate - is one of the organisations which developed this drug. The charity feels "hugely frustrated that Nice felt the drug wasn't good enough value for money". Surely Nice has a duty to honour any drug - which has been proved to work as conclusively as this one - that has been funded by the very people for whom it was intended? If people become disheartened, donations to research charities will dry up and much-needed new drugs will not be developed. Already there is a dearth of new medications.Thirdly, the cost to the NHS has been discounted by Janssen (by how much is not disclosed) but if the government got their act together and removed the VAT payable on all medicines, the cost would drop further. The Prostate Cancer Charity - www. prostate-cancer.org.uk - quotes the price as £2,930, excluding VAT, for 120 tablets,  a month's worth. Why is VAT payable on medicines anyway? There is something immoral about collecting tax from a life-saving drug.I wonder whether or not Janssen might think about reducing the cost of Abiraterone still further? Professor Johnson of Cancer Research UK said: "We feel extremely let down that the drug's manufacturer could not offer Nice a price they could agree on."To obtain Abiraterone - since it was licenced in September 2011 - has required an application to, either, the Primary Care Trust or the Cancer Drugs Fund (although that only functions in England and application in Wales, Scotland and Ireland has to be made by special request). It is worth noting that the Cancer Drugs Fund closes in 2013/14 - then what happens to those men whose drug was paid for by the Fund? For that matter, what happens to all those people whose drugs are covered in this way?There are trials still available and The Prostate Cancer Charity says that "In some cases, men may be able to access Abiraterone through a clinical trial. We would recommend that any man with prostate cancer speaks to his specialist to find out if there are any trials open that would be suitable for him."I know, from the emails I receive, that the opinion of many men is that male cancers are not given a high enough profile in the UK - certainly compared to breast cancer - and Owen Sharp, CEO of the Prostate Cancer Charity, said "This decision by Nice sends a clear message that investing in treatments for prostate cancer is simply not a priority for the NHS". I can see the emails now - "Case made ...".Prostate cancer is the most common male cancer and deserves as much recognition as does breast cancer (the most common female cancer). A friend, who has the disease, told me that the figures for length of survival of prostate cancer in the USA are considerably higher than those in the UK. In fact, ours are shockingly low. Why? His oncologist could not - or would not - answer the question. Professor Johnson from Cancer Research UK said "Nice must find a better way to ensure drugs that are already working for patients are approved".Now is the time to support charities like the Prostate Cancer Charity who is working hard to raise the profile of this horrible disease. Again, like all cancers, if it is caught early, a better prognosis is possible. Please - no matter what is your age - go and see your GP if you have problems passing urine and/or have back, hips or pelvis pain or call one of the specialist nurses provided by The Prostate Cancer Charity on 0800 074 8383.We talk about teachers, social workers and the medical profession having a "duty of care". Should this apply to Nice?