Follow @SharonFGrigsby
Five weeks from today Dallas students will be back in the classrooms. And I had so hoped that our editorial board efforts to generate momentum behind the district's plans for a new level of support services for students would be paying off. We most recently tried to get the conversation going in this essay and this editorial.Instead, the only thing making news in DISD is a variation on a headline that's familiar to longtime residents of our city: A report accuses Supt. Mike Miles of trying to manipulate a bid process. Here's colleague Mike Hashimoto's take on the matter.Between all the whispers about why so many people bailed from the Miles cabinet, board of trustees' crazy-making behavior and this latest investigation, it would be easy to think success in urban school districts just never happens. It sure hasn't happened in my 30+ years in Dallas.Can any district hire a superintendent and elect trustees who can work together fairly and effectively to keep their focus on addressing urban students' myriad challenges? Will we ever see a version of the Harlem Children's Zone in DISD? Well, look west if you want hope. Los Angeles, which in December received one of those federal Promise Neighborhood grants that Dallas missed out on. With that $30 million Education Department funding, the LA district will provide "cradle-to-college-and-career services for underserved children and their families in 19 neighborhood schools.You can read the LA plan for yourself. This is the kind of ambitious — and well-planned-out — blueprint that it will take to break the cycle of poverty that is undermining children's success in urban areas. It floods the zones with early childhood learning, tutoring, day care and arts programs for the children while providing job training and financial literacy classes for the parents. I am convinced that without this level of all-out holistic intervention, we will never even make a dent in the problems that face our city's children.Back in Dallas, we don't seem able to even navigate a relatively modest contract for parental involvement work without it turning into a s-storm. (Find the latest developments on the DMN Education blog.) Better wear your boots if you plan to be on hand tonight, when the trustees vote on an independent investigator in a mess that's smelling worse with every passing day.