As I waited to see my oncologist yesterday, my thoughts turned to an article I had read on Verity Reily Collins' website. Verity was apoplectic with rage when she discovered a report in the Journal of Oncology which suggests that patients might be better off with "virtual" follow-up appointments.How would I feel, I wondered, if I were sitting not in a cancer centre but in my own home, speaking to a "virtual" doctor. Certainly, there would be no small talk about family, work and my blog - and I doubt that a "virtual" oncologist would have told me about his early days as a young cancer doctor in Yorkshire!There is absolutely no way I would want to be seen by anything other than a real, flesh and blood human being. It comes as no surprise to me that breast cancer survivors all gave the thumbs down to the idea. I am not keen on a check-up over the telephone or on-line either.This week David Cameron - in an effort to change the mindsets of nurses - insisted that they should speak to patients every hour to ascertain whether or not they need anything. "Anything" means water, food, taking to the bathroom, or help of any kind. It is startling that nurses are having to be reminded of their role in the ward. Nursing is now reduced to a check-list - and all because university-educated nurses are not taught the meaning of the words "nurse" and "care". I would be fascinated to know just what is on the course curriculum.Did I really read that there will be financial bonuses for hospitals which perform well on the four basics of care - namely, prevention of bedsores, falls, blood clots and hospital acquired infections? From where is the money for these bonuses to come - and, most pertinently, to whom will it be paid? Why do people who choose to work in one of the caring professions have to be bribed to do it properly?How much of the collapse in standards of nursing care is due to the closure of all the small hospitals, giving the nurses more patients than they can handle, so they don't handle any of them? Years ago, there were two types of nurse - State Registered and State Enrolled. Both had training to different levels. The SE nurses kept the ward spick and span, made the beds, collected the bedpans and did all the very necessary but basic work, and helped the SR nurses with any medical tasks. The SR nurses handed out the medication, gave injections, changed dressings and completed the paperwork. Both types of nurse wanted to be there, wanted to nurse and wanted the patients to have the best possible treatment. Now we have nurses with university degrees and care assistants with no training whatsoever.I was interviewed by BBC Radio Wiltshire yesterday about the mobile chemotherapy units loaned to the NHS by the charity Hope for Tomorrow. When I finished the interview, it struck me that it is members of the public and charities who are trying to improve the lot of cancer patients - too many members of the medical profession are trying to find ways to keep patients at arms length.My oncologist told me that, as a young doctor, he and the team took chemotherapy from the main hospital to the outlying cottage hospitals.And now? The cottage hospitals have gone, chemotherapy and radiotherapy patients travel huge distances (not helpful while undergoing treatment), nurses have stopped talking to patients and "virtual" doctors are suggested as the way forward.Of course, unless the nurses really care about their patients, it might as well be a "virtual" nurse on a television screen who talks to the patients.