Wellbeing of Women is a charity based, very suitably, at The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. Last week, chaired by its Vice-Chairman Eve Pollard, it hosted an evening's discussion on "Ovarian cancer - the silent killer", to which I was invited. The charity is supported by many celebrities, among them are Emma Forbes, Kate Silverton and Natasha Kaplinski.The four eminent consultants - Professor John Shepherd (The Royal Marsden and Barts), Professor Henry Kitchener (the University of Manchester), Dr. Sean Kehoe (John Radcliffe Hospital Oxford) and Dr. Sudha Sundar (Pan Birmingham Gynaecological Cancer Centre) - had all, at some time, benefitted from research grants from the charity.The audience sat back and listened to what they had to say in answer to the Vice Chairman's questions. The discussion - during which the consultants did not always agree - ranged from prevention to earlier diagnosis and treatment. Was there a case for always removing the ovaries during hysterectomies? Answer "yes". This was particularly pertinent to me because a friend of mine is currently fighting ovarian cancer. The surgeon, who carried out her hysterectomy, left behind a tiny piece of ovary. This was done with the best of intentions - to stop her plunging straight into the menopause - but, 30 years later, this tiny piece became cancerous, with the symptoms being recognised by her GP when the cancer was at an advanced stage.There was discussion, too, about the possibility of ovarian cancer starting in the peritoneum (which supports the abdominal organs) or the fallopian tubes, where minor changes are impossible to see. Should we have the latter removed once our child bearing years are behind us? Rather a drastic measure but how many of us would do so if that prevented ovarian cancer?Unlike cervical cancer, which has a pre-cancerous stage picked up by a smear test, ovarian cancer does not. Therefore, there needs to be a better screening for this cancer which - according to the figures from Wellbeing of Women - kills one woman every two hours.The CA125 test does not pick up all the cases and, like other cancers, there is more than one type. However, a trial in the USA did not show a reduction in the number of deaths after screening - but did show that not all women will benefit from surgery. Dr. Sundar argued fiercely for more extensive surgery techniques - which she is trialling - and for the use of older, more proven drugs. Avastin is the latest "wonder drug" and has just been recommended by NICE for use in certain cases of advanced ovarian cancer -but, it is not without its toxic side effects, some of which have taken a terrible toll on my friend, and has been withdrawn from her chemotherapy regime.All four consultants agreed that GPs are too quick to misdiagnose ovarian cancer as irritible bowel syndrome and send the patient away - when, in fact, a proper examination would determine the possibility of cancer. According to Professor Shepherd, doctors are not being trained in the same way as they once were and are not comfortable doing vaginal and pelvic examinations. It was suggested that this was due, not only to a change in training "no need to examine, do a scan instead", but also to the difficulty of finding a chaperone in a GP surgery - not to mention the reluctance of the GP to run expensive tests. All the consultants agreed that a physical examination can tell the GP a good deal and they believed firmly we should all push our GPs to give us pelvic examinations if we have the relevant symptoms for ovarian cancer.Having written about the CVac Stage IV trial taking place in the USA and Dubai - funded by the Australian company, Prima Biomed - I was disappointed that none of the consultants gave any credence to it and described immunotherapy as a doubtful treatment. In fact, they all looked totally blank when I asked the question. While it is obviously early in its research, it seems a shame that the CVac trial can be so easily dismissed. Its director, Dr. Neil Frazer, is convinced that it could - one day - prevent chemotherapy having to be used at all. The consultants seemed amazed that desperate women look on the internet for anything which might lead to a halt in the advance of their disease. "Join a trial instead" was the suggestion - but that is not so easy as most trials preclude any woman who has had more than one course of chemotherapy.On the other hand, they all agreed that the diabetes drug, Metformin, is proving to be a possible assailant on cancer. It seems that the drug inhibits the growth of most tumour cells and diabetics who take Metformin are less likely to develop cancer and, should they do so, less likely to die from the disease. A study of women with breast cancer, who were undergoig chemotherapy before surgery, showed they were more likely to "get rid" of the cancer than those not on Metformin. A study by the Institute of Cancer Research in London found that, by combining Metformin with other inhibitors like Axitinib or Avastin, the growth of the tumour was suppressed. The great boon of Metformin is that it is a cheap and readily available drug. Dr. Vanitha Sivalingam at St. Mary's Hospital, Manchester has been awarded a research grant from Wellbeing of Women to work on the effects of Metformin on endometrial cancer - perhaps ovarian will be next in line?I recently read two reports of trials being carried out in relation to ovarian cancer. The first is a $25 million trial in Toronto by Dr. Pamela Goodwin of the Mount Sinai Hospital - "Can Metformin help ward off tumours in women being treated for breast cancer". It will be three or four years before the result is known but it does seem that Metformin is emerging as a drug with possibility.The second is from Cancer Research UK, which has developed a new MRI technique called Apparent Diffusion Coefficient (ADC) which measures the movement of water molecules within the ovarian tumour. A CT scan can only detect a size difference in a tumour, not a difference in its structure, so this MRI may be the best way to monitor how women with advanced ovarian cancer are responding to treatment.Ovarian cancer may be the "silent killer" but there is a good deal of work being undertaken to enable a much earlier diagnosis and, with the advent of personalised medicine (no longer one size fits all) a much better outcome for the patient. 