A cancer diagnosis brings with it a whole series of decisions - to take the advice of the doctor and have surgery/chemotherapy/radiotherapy; to agree to swallow the little tablet called Tamoxifen every day for five years; to change your lifestyle; to be tested for genetically inherited breast cancer, and for your family to be tested too; the list is endless.Vicky Sewart - whose breast cancer was diagnosed four years ago - refused her oncologist's offer of Tamoxifen to stamp out any oestrogen in her body and set out determinedly to do the same by changing her diet and taking more exercise. Four years on, she is fit and healthy - but how do we know if it is the diet?Oncologists will tell you that Tamoxifen reduces the possibility of breast cancer recurring by 30 per cent. However, like all drugs, Tamoxifen comes with side effects - some of which are an irritation, and some of which can be a good deal more serious. Many women never complete the five-year course, finding the side effects too debilitating.If the results of DietCompLyf, a long study by the University of Westminster, funded by the charity Against Breast Cancer, show that diet has a bearing on prevention of cancer and on helping to fight the disease once it is diagnosed, then people like Prof Jane Plant will have been proved correct.At the moment there is no reliable evidence that a diet without dairy food helps to prevent cancer. However, Prof Plant, a geochemist, believes that it does. When her cancer returned for the fifth time and was in the lymph nodes in her neck, Jane and her husband took a long look at why it was that breast cancer hardly featured in the part of the world in which they had worked - China. When Jane realised that the oriental diets were devoid of dairy food, she took the radical step of not eating milk, cheese, butter, yogurt and beef, which come from dairy cows - and which have significant amounts of an insulin-like growth factor IGF-1. IGF-1 is produced naturally in our bodies, but is it the excess of this factor, which we are adding through dairy food, that is causing both breast and prostate cancers? Interestingly, Tamoxifen works by lowering the circulating levels of IGF-1.At the same time Jane removed all processed food and fast food - many ready-made meals contain milk, sugar replacements, colourings and flavourings - and replaced it with foods based on Chinese and Japanese diets. The result was that, within six weeks, the "boiled-egg" sized tumour in her neck disappeared, never to return - and that was 17 years ago.Of course, it's impossible to know from a single case study whether the diet was responsible for the change in her fortunes; a major study by the World Cancer Research Fund found "no strong evidence" that dairy products increase risk of breast cancer, and it warns sufferers against cutting out major food groups such as dairy from their diet, because becoming underweight makes it harder to fight infection. But so firmly does Prof Plant believe in her Plant Programme for prevention and fighting of both breast and prostate cancers that she has resigned from her positions with the Penny Brohn Cancer Centre in Bristol and the Breast Cancer Havens because - as it says on her website - she "disagrees profoundly with the nutritional advice these organisations are giving to cancer patients". The advice they give involves including dairy products in one's diet.There are various foods which crop up all the time as being essential to the fight against cancer. Vicky Sewart uses turmeric at every opportunity - and this spice has been proved to "make cancer cells commit suicide", albeit only in a test tube. However, Cancer Research UK does not recommend using turmeric, or its derivative curcumin, as a cancer treatment without talking to your doctor first.Some sources give highly specific recommended foodstuffs for cancer sufferers. Among them are vegetables like broccoli, cabbage and kale, fish, green tea, porridge, members of the allium family, and fresh fruit and juices made from berries. At the moment, though, there is not enough evidence to support that sort of detailed advice. The World Cancer Research Fund's booklet Eating Well and Being Active Following Cancer Treatment recommends simply that you stay slim without becoming underweight; that you are physically active for at least 30 minutes every day; that you avoid sugary drinks and high-energy, fatty foods; that you eat a variety of vegetables and pulses; and that you limit your consumption of alcohol and salty foods.The debate will continue but it might be that dairy food turns out to be a risk factor - at least as far as breast and prostate cancer are concerned. Hardly known in China, breast and prostate cancers are known as the "cancers of the rich". That should tell us something.What do you think?