Early summer heralds the start of the fund-raising season. Huge numbers of people are walking, running, cycling, climbing mountains, swimming or jumping out of aeroplanes. Everyone is determined to raise as much money as possible for a particular cause.I, too, am taking part in an event. On June 16 I will be joining the other walkers for the last of this year's Pink Ribbon Walks, raising money for Breast Cancer Care. We set off at midday from Marble Hill Park in London (St Margaret's) for our 10 mile challenge. There is a 20 mile walk too but I thought that was a bridge too far.I last took part in a Pink Ribbon Walk five years ago in Derbyshire. A fun time was had by all but it wasn't until I began the walk that I realised quite how many hills were involved. This time I trust it will be flatter.I have already completed two "Race For Life" 5 km runs in previous years - in memory of all those I knew who had died of cancer. In particular, my oldest friend, whose life was taken by breast cancer before she reached her 50th birthday. Then I began to hear of more friends developing breast cancer and, ironically, nine months after my Peake District venture, I found myself sitting with the consultant and receiving the diagnosis we all dread.Breast Cancer is a respecter neither of age nor sex. I have met young women in their 20's fighting for survival and men who never realised that the disease could hit them too (particularly through this blog).I am hugely lucky to have reached four years from diagnosis and, by raising money for Breast Cancer Care, I feel that this is one way I can offer a form of support to all my friends (both old and new) for whom a diagnosis of breast cancer has changed their lives for ever.Breast Cancer Care is a charity which works tirelessly to ensure that every scrap of information about the disease - symptoms, treatment and aftercare - is easy to access; that breast cancer nurses are available to speak to worried patients; and that every kind of support is on offer to breast cancer sufferers and their families.If you feel like coming to support us on Saturday June 16, that would be great - if you would like to donate: here's my Just Giving page.