Working alongside the large, well-known charities in the UK are a myriad of smaller organisations who beaver away to provide the little - and sometimes not so little - extras which make the lives of cancer sufferers rather more bearable.One such charity is Cancer Relief UK. A number of Tracy and Steve Coupe's close family and friends were living with cancer and, through them, Tracy and Steve saw the problems which can arise for cancer patients and their families - through lack of money, companionship or much needed extra equipment. So, in 2008, Cancer Relief UK was born.The charity has given grants for such necessities as wheelchairs, morphine pumps and other medical equipment - often requested directly by hospitals - along with donations towards household bills (cancer patients feel the cold and heating bills can be astronomic). The average donation is £500 but once or twice CRUK has dug deep and found thousands of pounds to go towards specialised treatment here or in the USA. On one occasion, the grant was £10,000 and another as much as £25,000 - all with excellent results for the children involved.One of the ways Cancer Relief UK funds itself is by "cash for clobber" - buying used clothing from the public and selling it for £900-£1100 per ton.A couple of weeks ago - and out of the blue - Steve received an email from a company offering to pay the higher rate of £1200-£1400 per ton. Ever vigilant, Steve checked out the company and found it to be bona fide. A meeting was arranged and Steve travelled from his home in Chesterfield to the company's head office in Maidstone. He arrived to discover "a beautiful stately home in wonderful grounds". All seemed in order and he says that "the ladies we met were courteous and seemed knowledgeable about this sector - so we struck at deal of £1400 per ton." With the current financial climate, Cancer Relief UK had found themselves struggling financially - but this arrangement would put them firmly back on the road.I am sure you can guess what is coming next.The first load was despatched, the invoice sent with the driver but no payment arrived. Steve told me "Payment will probably never arrive now. Despite numerous calls and text messages we have not been paid." He has received one solitary text message from the company, explaining that the invoice was with the accountant and promising that a director of the company would be in touch. Steve left a voicemail message advising the company involved that if he heard nothing from them within the hour, he would contact the police and the Trading Standards Authority - no reply was forthcoming and the company took down its website.Steve found the local lorry driver, who told him that he was met at a location near Colchester by an Eastern European man who directed him to another location in Rochester where more Eastern European men unloaded the lorry and paid the driver his fee in cash.Steve had sent 6.5 tons of clothes and shoes with a value to Cancer Relief UK of £9,100 - money earmarked for grants.With such an elaborate ruse - a large and beautiful house, people employed and a smart website - it is obvious that this con must have affected other charities or charitable organisations. If you know of anyone who, like Cancer Relief UK, has been the subject of such a scam, please let me know - judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.Meanwhile, Steve has contacted the police and, although there is little hope of his payment being made, perhaps the people involved will be found and brought to justice. The future for Cancer Relief UK hangs in the balance.What sort of a person would do something like this? We watch and marvel at the cleverness of the BBC"s "Hustle" but there is a maxim among grifters of never cheating an honest man. Sadly, this does not seem to apply to those making a dishonest living out of our charities.www.cancerreliefuk.org 
Tel: 01246 236702 or 0845 095 1000