Ellie Jeffery - the ITN and Sky Reporter - died on 18th May, aged 29 and within weeks of her carefully planned wedding to TV producer Tom Throstrup. She was diagnosed last year with advanced breast cancer, which had spread to her lungs, liver and bones. Not content with that, the cancer then flipped from hormone receptive to triple negative - a notoriously difficult version to treat.Alerted to Ellie's blog - by Angela, a friend of Ellie's Mother - I spoke to Ellie on the telephone and and we were in email contact but, sadly, I never met this incredibly brave woman.Like hundreds of other people, I followed closely her blog "Notes on Cancer" and admired her stoicism in the face of totally negative medical opinions. Her fiance, Tom, has written "the post I never wanted to write" on her blog in which he describes her last days and her "indefatigable spirit and relentless optimism".When I spoke to Ellie last year, before writing my blog post about her - The Moving Story of an Incredibly Brave Woman - I asked her what one aspect of her experience would she highlight for others who may be travelling down the same road. Without hesitation, she said "do not be afraid to ask for a second opinion".Ellie titled her blog "Written off" because that is exactly what her original doctor had done. However, Ellie challenged the prognosis, found a second opinion and, in doing so, bought herself time - she called her subsequent consultant Professor Hope.From pictures of Ellie, it is clear that her family friend, Angela, was right to describe her to me as "stunningly beautiful - inside and out". Ellie's journalistic talent shone through in her blog posts, which she wrote with humour, honesty and hope. The huge number of tweets from colleagues at Sky, ITN and other broadcasting media companies, point to how much she was respected professionally and loved personally. This is a terrible waste of a delightfully talented girl.No matter how much is spent on research, there is still a seemingly endless road ahead before the most difficult types of breast cancer have a hope of being treated. At the risk of inciting adverse comments, Ellie's brave fight shows us that there is no doubt that dealing with cancer is a battle - not just the need to fight the disease, but the extra strength needed to fight the side effects of the medication, not to mention fighting some clinicians and medical staff. Ellie - in her blog - details her experience of unhelpful members of the medical profession. However, Tom makes it clear in his blog post that the nurses at The James Cook University Hospital in Middlesbrough - where Ellie spent her last days - were wonderful. That is so very good to hear.Tom, her fiance, will receive hundreds of letters, emails, texts and tweets of condolence and I would like to add my heartfelt sorrow at Ellie's untimely death. He suggests he is looking at a way of publishing Written Off and I hope that comes about - she was an inspiration to all who read her blog and it would be excellent for the many more (particularly the young), who will be diagnosed in the future, to have an opportunity to benefit from her legacy.Meanwhile, if anyone would like to make a donation in Ellie's memory, there are two organisations which Ellie found enormously helpful.
 Maggie's and Action Against Cancer.