Over 300,000 people in the UK develop cancer each year. Currently, there are two million people living with the disease and it is estimated that this number will double to four million by 2030.Once cancer is diagnosed, the patient enters a complicated and, sometimes, confusing medical world - from the GP, through the various degrees of cancer doctor (houseman, registrar and/or consultant) to oncologists, specialist nurses and the community care teams made up of district and twilight nurses. In this blog post I'd like to try and clear up some of the confusion.Two charities offer specialist care to cancer patients for whom the disease has taken its final toll and who have chosen to spend their last weeks in their own homes or hospices. Nurses from Marie Curie (with its distinctive daffodil logo) and Macmillan (with its World's Biggest Coffee Morning) are very well known for the palliative care they offer. But are we all sure of the difference between the two? How do we access their help? Where do they fit into the community care team? Are they self-funding? Susan Monroe, Marie Curie's Director of Nursing, and Adrienne Betteley, Macmillan's Palliative and End of Life Care Manager, gave me the answers.Marie Curie Nurses comprise Registered Nurses and Healthcare Assistants. The latter carry out the same nursing tasks except for administering injections; these will be done by a Marie Curie Nurse or by a member of the Community Team, such as the Twilight Nurses. The Marie Curie team are the practical hands-on nurses who visit patients at home and tend them - usually at night, leaving the daytime to the District and Twilight Nurses, but they are prepared to be there whenever they are needed while also giving emotional support to family and friends. Marie Curie Nurses look after terminal cancer and non-cancer patients; they are employed by Marie Curie under contract to the NHS and are funded half by the charity and half by the NHS.Marie Curie Nurses have to be referred by the District Nurse on behalf of the GP or by the hospital Discharge Liaison Team (only certain hospitals have these teams), can only provide the amount of care determined by the PCT and can only work with the approval of the District Nurse. It seems extraordinary that in this 21st century the terminally ill patient leaves hospital with a written letter to the GP. Marie Curie are working with Dr Julia Riley, Consultant in Palliative Medicine at The Royal Marsden and Dr Chi-Chi Cheung from the Palliative Care Team at the Central and North West London NHS (Camden and Islington) to establish an Electronic Patient Record, "Co-ordinate my Care". This would enable the handover to be very much quicker. For the patient, the transition from hospital to home or hospice needs to be smoothly achieved with no "waiting for an assessment".Marie Curie is also working on a more flexible model called "Managed Care", which would move the budget to Marie Curie and away from the District Nurses. The patient would see no change, but it would clear the way for the Marie Curie Nurses to make their own decisions as to what is an appropriate level of care. At the moment, they often have to push hard for this and, as Susan Monroe explained, "it is about planning and responding to the changing situation of a patient. One size fits all does not work at the end of life." At the moment, it is not possible to approach Marie Curie directly but, once "Managed Care" is in action, anyone will be able to contact the charity and the patient's needs will be assessed by Marie Curie's specialist nurses, rather than having to go through the GP, District Nurse and PCT.For more information, visit www.mariecurie.org.ukMacmillan Nurses are Clinical Nurse Specialists. Each Nurse is registered and specialises in one particular area - e.g. palliative care, lymphoedema management, technical and information provision, support and co-ordination or in a particular type of cancer. They are not so much "hands-on" nurses - they do not tend the patient like the Marie Curie Nurses - but are specialists in advice and support, often advising or educating the GP if the patient's condition becomes more complex and pain-management or psychological issues emerge.Macmillan Palliative Care Nurses - as part of the Community Care Team - will take over once the patient has been discharged from hospital. They will often only need to visit a patient once or twice to work out the best medication. Adrienne Betteley said: "It is like treating diabetics. Most of the time they remain stable but occasionally the condition becomes unstable. At these times, or after initial diagnosis, the Specialist Macmillan Nurse will be needed to advise on the right medication."Macmillan Nurses are employed by the NHS, but Macmillan uses a pump-priming model which funds its nurses for three years, after which the NHS takes over. They only work with cancer patients and their families, assessing complex care needs - often those of the whole family - devising a care model and co-ordinating the team to put this into practice. The patient has a named and readily available Macmillan contact who offers support at the initial diagnosis, advice on treatment decisions, support with managing symptoms and side-effects of treatment, assistance with financial problems, emotional and psychological support, specialised services and diagnostic and follow-up clinics.Anyone can approach Macmillan Cancer Support: www.macmillan.org.uk or call 0808 808 0000.Having always thought Marie Curie and Macmillan Nurses offered the same service, I see now the difference and how well the two charities work within the NHS system, each playing its specific role.There were two more questions I asked Adrienne and Susan - both of which I had been asked by readers of my blog.Firstly, is it possible to ensure that a patient can remain pain-free at the end of life? Adrienne answered: "Most patients can be pain-free but intolerance to drugs may mean it takes longer to stabilise the pain-free condition." Susan said: "It is very possible to keep the vast majority of patients pain-free at the end of life. NICE recently published a report saying that GPs are under-prescribing, resulting in too many patients not being pain-free." Why, I wonder? Is this a legacy of Harold Shipman or budget constraints?Secondly, what happens to a private patient? Can he or she access Marie Curie or Macmillan services? The answer from both charities was a resounding yes, although it is understood that some NHS GPs feel it is not appropriate to refer a patient who has accessed private care.Without going into the dogma of this, I thought a GP had a duty of care to his or her fellow human beings - regardless of whether their patients' companies or trade unions covered their health insurance.Once again, it is perfectly clear that without the charitible input of Marie Curie or Macmillan the NHS would be completely unable to offer tailor-made palliative care to end-of-life patients. We owe these nurses an enormous thank-you.