I ended my last blog post by saying I was about to return to my consultant and hear the results of my mammogram. In the event, my consultant was not happy about something seen on the mammogram of my "whole" breast and he asked me to undergo some more tests. I had a very tricky time waiting for another mammogram and then a scan to determine whether or not it was anything suspicious. Thank goodness, it proved not to be - just a blip on the picture - but, following the condemnation of the "overselling of mammography" by American cancer charity Susan G Komen For the Cure - I realise that I never gave my decision a second thought. It never occurred to me to "wait and see". I needed to know as soon as possible, so that I could get on with my life - whatever the result showed.Having experienced a false-negative mammogram myself, at the time of my breast cancer diagnosis, I understand why some women hold back from screening but the risks of that happening and those offered by the dose of radiation needed and the inevitable distress of a diagnosis - false or not - must be outweighed if the cancer is found early.Professor Lisa Schwartz and Professor Steven Woloshin at The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice have accused the world's largest breast cancer charity of "using misleading statistics to persuade women to undergo mammography". These two doctors have used the BMJ website to criticise last year's breast cancer awareness advertising campaign by Susan G Komen for the Cure. They say that the charity "overstates the benefit of mammography and ignores harms altogether".As far as I understand it, the central reason for the criticism is the buzz word of the moment - "overdiagnosis" (which means the detection of a cancer which will not kill, or even cause symptoms during a patient's lifetime). However, it seems to me to be a misused word. As far as I understand it, no one can tell whether or not a cancer - even an early one contained within the duct, like DCIS - will metastasise or not. There is, as yet, no clinical test that can differentiate between malignancies. I agree totally with my commenter Expatintheusa, who says "I didn't wait and I would recommend every woman diagnosed with DCIS to push for rapid surgery."Prof Schwartz and Woloshin also challenge the survival statistics quoted by the charity, which, according to the Professors, promote false hope. The charity says that early diagnosis saves lives. I would have thought that was a statement of the obvious, but figures can so easily be interpreted to justify any argument - and I wonder sometimes how helpful it is to pay any attention to them. The example given is "If 100 women, aged 67, who receive a diagnosis of breast cancer, after feeling a lump, die aged 70, the five year survival rate is 0 per cent. However, if the same women are diagnosed aged 64 and die at 70, the five year survival rate is 100 per cent." I think that makes my point - not necessarily theirs.Of course, the two Professors are talking about a medical system where women are offered mammograms every year. In the UK, women are invited for screening between the ages of 47 and 73 - but every three years and screening for those between 47-50 and 70-73 is not available everywhere.I would definitely go along with another of my commenters, English_Pensioner, whose 70-year-old sister decided to visit a mobile breast unit; a small cancer was detected and successfully removed and she is now an active campaigner for those over 70 to be invited for screening.To answer another commenter Pragmatist's question: "Why did you feel it necessary to have a breast examination after being screened?" Because it was possible and, thank goodness, I did - as I cited in my previous blog post - but my point is that every woman should be entitled to the same screening as me. Yes, David of Kent, the NHS is very "active with its breast screening programme" but, without a clinical examination, false negative mammogram readings are left to cause problems later.The Susan G Komen For the Cure is a charity which has received a good deal of criticism - from accusations of "pinkwashing" (accepting money from unsuitable partners) to its revoking and reinstating of its grant to Planned Parenthood. There are a good number of websites devoted to criticising the charity and Prof Schwartz and Woloshin have now added hugely to their copy.As far as the UK is concerned, a statement from Dr Rachel Greig, Senior Policy Officer at Breakthrough Breast Cancer, said: "Professor Mike Richards - the NHS's National Cancer Director - is undertaking a review of all the evidence that underpins the NHS Breast Screening Programme and we hope this will provide clarity on this issue. Women are and should always be at the heart of this debate. It is essential that they receive clear and accurate information so they can make an informed choice as to whether to attend their screening appolintments."The Susan G Komen for the Cure figure for five year survival rate is 98 per cent when found early and 23 per cent when not. The Professors' question how this is calculated and quibble over percentage points. I suspect women just want to be screened, treated quickly and given any support they need to come through the experience and be able to enjoy the highest quality of the life left to them - however long or short that might be. Statistics play no part in that.