Visiting my mother-in-law in her care home, I became aware of how the dynamic of the home had changed in the three and a half years she has lived there. There are now many more people - mostly women - who, quite obviously, also have dementia. When she first arrived, a good proportion of the other residents were elderly and possibly infirm but not, necessarily, suffering from this horrible condition.It is estimated that over 766,000 people in the UK are suffering from some form of dementia, and the numbers are rising all the time. However, according to a report from the Department of Health, whether or not you receive a diagnosis or medication depends upon which postcode you fall into.My own mother, who died earlier this year, also had dementia - vascular dementia in her case - which was diagnosed by a specialist in the diseases of the elderly (we are not supposed to call them psycho-geriatricians any more). She was given medication to alleviate the worst symptoms - which, sadly, did not work for her. Vascular dementia brings with us unimaginable torment, which is heartbreaking to watch. Her condition developed so quickly - literally overnight - but, without the support of the Barchester-run nursing home, whose staff nursed her for 18 months and whose matron enlisted the advice of the specialist, I suspect I would have never known the diagnosis.My mother-in-law's condition has been progressively deteriorating over the last four years and I have been trying to persuade her GP to make a formal diagnosis - but he is of the opinion that it is obvious what is wrong, nothing can be done about it and we should leave it there. At no time has he suggested any kind of medication to halt the development of the condition, just a tranquillising drug to calm her when needed. Now it is far too late.This appears not to be an uncommon reaction. Recent figures show that 6 out of 10 dementia patients go undiagnosed - and yet, for some of them, medication might have worked to slow down the progress of the condition. We will always wonder whether or not an early diagnosis would have helped my mother-in-law.Why do GPs in some parts of the country react this way? If you are a GP, I would be very interested to hear from you on this subject. Email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.Just as in some types of cancer, the age at which dementia strikes is falling - and if it is difficult to find a GP to diagnose an elderly person, imagine how much more difficult it must be to convince a GP that there is something seriously wrong with a younger person.Rebecca Wood, CEO of Alzheimer's Research UK, says: "It will take the collective will of people with dementia and health professionals to create a culture where dementia is recognised swiftly and acted upon. A diagnosis can help people with dementia access support services and treatments to help them maintain independent living for as long as possible."Without help from the GP and referral to a specialist, the family is left trying to manage an extremely complex situation with no support. The stigma of a "mental health" condition makes it all so much more difficult.Alzheimer Research UK's website carries its 12 Rays of Hope for Christmas. These include an example of extremely early onset dementia, explanations of various research projects underway and a report which describes how blood pressure drugs could reduce the risk of vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease.If you have been affected by dementia of any kind, or are concerned about a family member or friend, log onto www.alzheimersresearchuk.org. On the charity's website you will see The 12 Rays of Hope and have an opportunity to download Stacey Solomon's Christmas recording of "Driving Home for Christmas" - for which she is donating half the proceeds to the charity.
_____________Information about a new device popped into my inbox. It seems eminently suitable for any vulnerable, frail or ill person living on his or her own, or spending the day alone. One stage on from the panic button, this sends a text to the nominated carer if there is cause for concern - if, for example, if the temperature in the house drops below a certain level, if no movement has been detected for a certain length of time, or if the front door is opened within certain hours. It is called SeNCit. For further information call 01628 638557.