Professor Richard Sullivan - lead author of The Lancet Oncology's Commission Affordable Care in High Income Countries, which reported in September and about which I wrote a blog post entitled "According to the Lancet, saving lives is an unaffordable burden. What a terrifying prospect" - has contacted me. The subject of the Commission was the ever-increasing cost of cancer medicine and "what makes a medicine cost-effective". The issues surrounding end of life medical care were also included - and charities involved in this area understood the conclusions to mean that palliative care was "futile".Consequently, Professor Sullivan is anxious to clarify the Commission's stance on this incredibly difficult subject. I quoted his answers on BBC Radio 4's Today programme - and have listened to them again, just to make sure I was not imagining what he said - which seemed to imply that it was only worth spending money on drugs if an extra year of life was guaranteed. Although this is what I heard, Professor Sullivan is insistent that this is not the correct interpretation of his words. I am very happy to do as he requests and quote his email.He writes: "Firstly, your comment about medicines giving only one year of life being the only ones of value - that is not what I said, nor what the report says should happen; this report is about having the debate about exactly what makes a medicine cost effective; and this is, simply put, a matter of how much it extends life, controls the particular cancer or improves the quality of life and its cost. Many medicines and other technologies provide a small benefit for very high cost. The question for society is what it is willing to pay and whether, within finite budgets, it is prepared to take money from one area e.g. mental health to pay for another."Secondly, you will see from the title of the Commission - Affordable Care in High Income Countries - and the list of authors that this report is about all developed countries, especially and particularly the USA. There is substantial evidence now that particularly in the USA a culture of excessive usage of diagnostics and other tests as well as over-treatment does exist. This report is not about telling doctors to write off their patients. It's about pointing out that in healthcare systems like the USA which are driven by reimbursement there are serious incentives for excessive application of medical technologies that go way beyond what one would consider the best standard of care."I understand completely that this is, possibly, a "no-win" subject, which is incredibly difficult and uncomfortable to discuss, but one which needs desperately to be debated. Listening to the press conference at the publication of the Commission, Professor Sullivan explains the reasons for the huge rise in cost. Firstly, we have an aging population - and with age comes a greater risk of cancer; secondly, the new technologies - not just medicine but imaging, radiotherapy, surgery and nuclear medicine, including the new personalised medicine/tailor-made therapies; thirdly, the acceleration of new technology which explains the increase in healthcare professionals and infrastructure costs.Interestingly, those taking part in the Commission included clinicians, pharmacists, patient groups etc, but the pharmaceutical industry would not agree to participate - on the advise of their legal teams. Interpret that as you will...The opening of the Commission says "We are at a crossroads for affordable care, where our choices - or refusal to make choices - will affect the lives of millions of people". Professor Sullivan is extremely anxious that "the public must be educated on the huge struggle we are having with healthcare and cancer affordability". He says: "The debate must be brought back into the community."So - that is what I am doing. What do you think? How should we divide our dwindling resources so that everyone is treated fairly? What about palliative care and the costs involved? The Commission describes preventative measures - lifestyle issues particularly - but we do not seem to be taking this to heart. Why? Surely early diagnosis would help too - yet the NHS seems reluctant to put more money into preventative medicine, as do the private health insurance companies.Please email me your thoughts: judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.