Looking after my grandson this week - just a year old, with bags of energy - requires my full attention and allows for little time to catch up on the news. Consequently, it was only when I arrived home this evening that I re-listened to something I had heard on The Today Programme before seven this morning - while my bleary-eyed self prepared for the day ahead.Did I really hear Professor Richard Sullivan from Kings College London - and lead author of the Lancet Oncology Commission's Report - say that it is only worth spending money on drugs if an extra year of life is guaranteed?Yes, I did. If I understand him correctly, that is exactly what his report suggests should happen. However, he did not explain how this criteria could be applied when, as we all know, there are countless examples of patients - given only weeks to live - being offered a new, experimental drug and living happy, quality lives five years down the track; Sutent for kidney cancer and Avastin for bowel cancer.It seems that it is not only the drugs bill which is becoming a "burden" but cancer surgery is becoming "unaffordable" too - along with other tests and treatments. The report says that a "culture of excess" has led doctors to "overtreat, overdiagnose and overpromise" - but, surely, a doctor is in the business of, at best, saving lives and, at worst, ensuring that every attempt is made to give the patient hope and extra time? Is this what is meant by a "culture of excess"? Doing their best for their patients? Would it be fair to expect doctors to "write off" their patients? I have always thought it must be difficult enough to have to break the news of a cancer diagnosis - without having to then say that nothing can be offered because it is all too expensive and, anyway, would only offer weeks or months. Weeks or months might be just what the patient needs to organise whatever has to be done, both for himself and his family.Also - where does this leave patients with rare cancers? The Report suggests that there is "little evidence that new drugs help patients" but, if they are new, how can this statement make any sense? Surely time is needed for results? Sometimes it can take many years before a drug can be proven - tamoxifen being a good example. We know that the older, tested drugs are used on the more common cancers - and are much cheaper - but for rare cancers, there can only be "new" drugs because funding for research is so much more difficult to find.We also know that new drugs can be eye-wateringly expensive. Why? Perhaps the pharmaceutical companies would step forward and justify the amount they charge - they cost a good deal less to manufacture and, yes, before people start writing comments, I know research is extremely costly but a bowel cancer drug (not approved by Nice) is quoted as costing £100,000 per year.Describing palliative care as "futile" must have made this an extremely disturbing day for all those who are fighting for their lives - and that includes several of my friends.A statement from Macmillan Cancer Support said "Palliative care costs are currently higher than necessary. A key factor in the UK is the lack of 24/7 community nursing and unplanned emergency admissions. Providing this service as standard would lead to long-term savings".In the UK, 310,000 are diagnosed with cancer each year. With an ageing population that number is expected to rise to 400,000 in 2030 - with age comes an increasing possibility of cancer.The NHS annual bill for cancer treatment is £5 billion. The Report suggests that more money should be spent on early diagnosis and preventative treatment - that, at least, is something with which we can all agree.Professor Sullivan did have the grace to admit that he realised that "terminal cancer patients want everything possible to be done". I know that not everyone wants every chance of extending their life if the drug has horrendous side effects - but not to have a choice would be callous in the extreme.While I appreciate fully that the current economic climate means that the funds available need to be apportioned wisely, surely, when it comes to palliative care, we must hope that our doctors will be trying everything possible to prolong our lives. It is a frightening prospect otherwise.