Everyone's reaction to a cancer diagnosis is different. My consultant told me that he breaks the news of a malignancy, surgery and treatment in stages - some people can cope with hearing the whole message instantly and some cannot.It is always advisable to have someone with you when you return to hear the results of tests. I was so certain that the biopsy result would be negative, that I refused all offers from the family to accompany me and went on my own. I am lucky enough to have a very patient-friendly consultant - who, after several years of consultations, also knew me well enough to be sure that I would be able to cope with the diagnosis on my own.Then it was a question of ringing my husband and my children to tell them. There was no way round this because, although they were not with me, they all knew I was returning to the hospital and were waiting for the call. As I have written before, this was the worst part of the whole experience. I was so certain of the result that I had read nothing about breast cancer; I had not trawled the internet; nor rung friends of mine who were breast cancer "surivivors" and I had given no consideration as to how I would react if the news was bad, how I would break the news to the family or how I would cope with other people's concern.In the last three years the support for all types of cancer has mushroomed; self-help and advice groups have sprung up; complementary therapy centres have opened and books have been written - many offer all sorts of advice for the patient and the family. One such book, to be published on October 30, is called The Cancer Journey - Positive Steps to Heal Yourself and is written by three people. Dr Pam Evans was diagnosed with breast cancer is 2006 when she was a medical researcher and career coach. No longer in the medical world, she works as an holistic therapist with patients who have life-threatening illnesses - (www.willtolivecoaching.com); in 2005 - aged 24 - Polly Noble was first diagnosed with cervical cancer, which was already in the lymph nodes. In 2010, it appeared again in the lymphs and was deemed incurable. Polly is teaching others and using her knowledge of holistic health to fight the cancer; the late Nicholas Hull-Malham had three bouts of cancer, and Parkinson's disease and, sadly, died before publication of the book but launched the website www.laughingwithcancer.com.Do not be put off by the book's title. The first part contains some really useful advice. Sometimes the most commonsense solution is the last one to come to mind at a stressful time and, for those waiting for test results, embarking on the cancer "journey" or supporting a friend or relative, this is an excellent book to read. The advice ranges across many aspects of cancer, all of which are explained simply and, often, with humour.From the suggestion of wearing loose-fitting clothes for chemotherapy sessions; how to ease the constipation or diarrhoea (bananas, rice, apples and toast for the latter) caused by chemotherapy; relaxation techniques to cope with restless legs, insomnia, leg cramps and night sweats (the latter two about which I know only too well); manual lymphatic drainage; how and what to tell the children; use email to tell your friends - so much easier than a telephone call and can be done in one "hit"; to a list of questions to ask the doctor and a suggestion that recording the session with the consultant may be a good idea, because it can be difficult to remember everything that was said at the time.The writers encourage you to "take control" and, if you wish, to ask for a second opinion. Along the way, there are other lists - films on which to use your tears, films to make you laugh, self-help techniques like visualisation, meditation of all kinds and complementary therapies. There are tips on how to communicate with a cancer survivor and useful ways of helping encompass the needs of family and friends - who, so often, do not know what to do or say - and there is a whole section on taking care of your emotional wellbeing.The second part of the book may not convince those for whom the jury is still out on the link between cancer and food. The writers believe that a strict diet of organic raw food, juicing, smoothies, superfoods and some new "real" superfoods - used in an holistic programme with exercise and exploration of your inner strength can help to combat the return of cancer. Some of these superfoods will be, not only very difficult to obtain but, I suspect, extremely expensive and not everyone will have the budget for them. The diet seems to be one step on from Jane Plant's "Plant Programme". The writers provide a clear explanation of how acidic foods - bad - can promote inflammation which, in turn, promotes cancer cell growth as opposed to alkaline foods - good - which fight cancer.As well as a table of lists - Foods to Avoid, Foods to Consume Occasionally, Foods to Consume in Moderation and Foods to Consume Generously - there are recipes and suggestions for the writers' five worst offender foods (fizzy drinks, coffee, meat, cheese and oils) and a warning about the contents of some skincare and household products.Proceeds of the book are going to the Nicholas Hull-Malham Lymphoma Trust at The Hammersmith Hospital, Marie Curie Cancer Care, Macmillan Cancer Support and the Teenage Cancer Trust. With a foreward by Polly's friend, the singer, Katharine Jenkins - whose father died from cancer when she was 15 - it is a book from which you can pick and choose. There may be parts which make huge sense to one person but not to another, something will work in one case but not the next. The writers give you a selection of well-being and lifestyle choices, in which they believe firmly and to which they hope you will give a chance.They say "Be prepared. Your life is going to change. That much is out of your hands. It's how you choose to deal with it that will make the difference."