We complain a good deal about the standard of medical care for cancer patients in the UK; about too few radiotherapy centres; about too many cancer patients being diagnosed late; about a lack of information, communication and referrals to support systems. All of this is true and we have a long way to go - but, just recently, I have been stopped short by two emails from a teacher in Ghana. Internet access is hard to find but, when he is at work, Alex can use the school computer - when it is available. By this means - in a desperate attempt to discover more about cancer and its treatments - he came upon my blog and wrote to tell me what is happening to his family and to ask why Africa has been forgotten when it comes to cancer medicine and care.Alex and his family used to live in Liberia but moved to Ghana to try and find treatment for his sick wife - there was none at all in Liberia. Angelica has breast cancer and has had a double mastectomy but still no treatment. Why? Because none is available in Ghana. Unless you are able to buy air tickets - the price of which is equivalent to six months' salary - and seek medical care in South Africa, you have no hope.Alex and Angelica have four children - Rose, 18, Rita, 16, Anita, 15 and Peter, 13. Needless to say Alex is deeply unhappy as he witnesses the children watching their mother living with constant, searing pain. Angelica cannot bear to see her children so upset and, because she does not want her children to remember her this way, she begs to die. She refuses to let Alex spend the tiny amount of money he manages to save from his salary of $103 per month, with an extra $20 he earns by giving private lessons, on her. In the past few years he sold everything he owned to try and raise enough money to "make Angelica comfortable".The doctors have told Alex that "cancer cells are hereditary and that your children may have it". Screening is suggested. Alex says that "occasionally the government offers free screening" and he plans to take the children to the city where the only hospitals and doctors are to be found. However, he knows that when he gets there "the centre will not be organised and money will have to change hands". The few hospitals that there are in Ghana are not equipped to deal with cancer patients.The high illiteracy rate in the country, combined with no health education, means that "People do not know all cancers. Most people think it is one and the same". Alex says that "Cancer has become so rampant in Africa - particularly those affecting women - that a lot of people carry the disease and die without knowing they had cancer".I have no answer for Alex - but I wonder, are there any charities who might help Angelica? If you know of one, please could you email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk and I will contact it on Alex's behalf. As Alex says, this is just one family's story - there are thousands of other African families in equally dire straits. Surely there must be some way of helping?Alex finishes his last email with the words "If my wife's life is remembered through your blog, it would be a great honour".
No, Alex, it is an honour for me to try and help. It is the least I can do.