For men who believe that they have a raw deal when it comes to funding research and treatment for prostate cancer, the U-turn by NICE over its original non-recommendation of Abiraterone for advanced stages of the disease must have raised their hopes hugely.The change of heart by NICE, following the campaign spear-headed by the Prostate Cancer Charity, with the support of John Leech MP, means that thousands of men will be able to benefit from extra time with family and friends. NICE listened and responded to the argument that Abiraterone should be classed as an end of life drug, having originally placed it in a different category.This is wonderful news for those men in England (not so Scotland, where the SMC, the equivalent of NICE, is still refusing to recommend the drug) and will provide a surge of much needed awareness of the disease. Owen Sharpe, CEO of The Prostate Cancer Charity said "this disease has suffered a legacy of neglect for decades" and, despite being the most commonly diagnosed cancer in men, is considered by them to be the forgotten cancer.However (since I began to write this blog and entered the world of health, I have discovered there is always a "however") the use of the alternative to Abiraterone, a drug called Cabazitaxel, has been rejected by NICE on appeal as not being cost-effective. Not every drug works for every person and, as I wrote in this blog post, some Cancer Drugs Funds were insisting on a choice being made between the two drugs - with no second chance if the first choice did not work.So, with the rejection of Cabazitaxel, it would seem that NICE has given with one hand and taken away with the other. What happens to those men for whom Abiraterone does not work - or stops working, as happens eventually? The patients at the Parliamentary briefing were adamant that Abiraterone gave them back their strength, allowed them to live a perfectly normal life and removed any pain. These renewed levels of energy would allow them to combat the side effects from any drug, like Cabazitaxel, which might be prescribed after Abiraterone.It is still possible to apply to the Cancer Drugs Fund - while it is in existance - for Cabazitaxel but no two CDF's work in the same way and time is of the essence for men in this situation. There is a stipulation that a decision from a CDF must be made within 31 days - I wonder how often that happens? The only alternative is palliative care.Considering NICE takes an average of 9 years to decide whether or not to recommend a licensed drug, it would seem that we need many more concerted campaigns.Abiraterone has been approved by NICE because Janssen agreed to drop the price - but it took 8 months of negotiation. As NICE is an un-elected body, perhaps it would help if the drug manufacturers and NICE revealed a little more about the cost of a particular drug, so that the tax-payers could have an insight into the figures. At the moment, the negotiations are kept secret. In the USA, public spending is referred to as "tax-dollars". Would it be a good idea to do the same here? After all, the drugs are paid for by us with our tax-pounds.Perhaps the manufacturer of Cabazitaxel - Sanofi - whose appeal hearing was dismissed, might be prepared to "go public". Just how much is too much for a drug to be considered not cost-effective?Without resorting to a campaign, we have little influence on NICE and its cost-based decisions but, for now, many congratulations to the Prostate Cancer Charity Team and John Leech.