This has been an exciting week for those searching to understand how best to predict, diagnose and treat breast cancer.First we heard that research - partly funded by Cancer Research UK - has revealed that there are 10 subtypes of breast cancer. Frozen tumour samples were taken from 2,000 women diagnosed with breast cancer 5-10 years ago, cells were examined for mutations and other changes and then grouped into the 10 subtypes with common genetic features. Several completely new breast cancer genes were found, which would be potential targets for the development of new drugs.Harpal Kumar, CEO of Cancer Research UK, said: "no longer is breast cancer one disease but ten quite distinct diseases, dependent on which genes are switched on and which are not for an individual woman". He did not mention men but I hope to elicit an answer on that subject.This discovery answers the question why some women, with the most common form of breast cancer, who are predicted to do well, in fact do badly - and why some, with subtypes already known to make recovery harder, defy all medical knowledge and do very well.It also means that the approach of using tailor-made treatments - which is happening already - will be escalated and drugs found for each specific type of breast cancer. Perhaps it will also mean that unnecessary treatment - much discussed at the moment - will be identified and some patients spared treatment altogether.Professor Karol Sikora from the Hammersmith Hospital in London said "it is likely that a lot of drugs have been thrown out by pharma companies that would benefit small groups of patients. We call them 'trash-can' drugs."Will this be the chance to kick-start research into medication for all sorts of rare conditions - not just breast cancer? Presumably, only if funding can be found - it is the old story of where you choose to spend your money.However, Professor Carlos Caldas, Chair of Medicine at the University of Cambridge and lead researcher said: "it would appear that, in some women, the immune system is enriched and if we can understand why this is, it will lead to new treatments". There seems to be much focus on the role of the immune system in fighting cancer - maybe, eventually, we will be able to use our own immune systems to cure ourselves.The second announcement, on Tuesday, was about a possible blood test which would be able to identify if a woman (not sure about a man - but I will ask) is at risk of developing breast cancer in years to come.The study - by researchers at Imperial College, London, led by James Flanagan and funded by Breast Cancer Campaign - looked at methylation (a process which alters a white blood gene called ATM) in women of various ages and found that those with the high levels were twice as likely to develop breast cancer. 1 in 5 women are thought to have this "genetic switch", which doubles their risk of breast cancer.Of the 1,380 women genetically tested, 640 developed breast cancer - with their blood tests being carried out, on average, 3 years before diagnosis but, in some cases, as long as 11 years before diagnosis.It appears that genes can be altered by external factors like alcohol, smoking, hormones and pollution. Epigenetics is the new buzz word - Mr. Flanagan said: "we hope this research is just the beginning of our understanding about the epigenetic component of breast cancer risk. There is the possibility of a simple blood test to assess breast cancer risk in advance by looking at the alteration of individual genes."It seems that these external factors can come into play in the womb, around birth or later in life. Whilst we know the risks of alcohol and smoking, I feel sure that Professor Jane Plant was absolutely right to point out the dangers of, not just air pollution and chemicals used on crops, but everyday items which can leak their chemical ingredients into our food or drink. Hormones which are delivered to our tables courtesy of farmers injecting their animals, eggs from chickens kept in batteries, none of these can be doing us any good. If we want our immune systems to be strong enough to fight disease, we need to make sure we are not compromising them by everyday living.