In my last blog post I raised the possibility that the Montessori method of working with under fives could, perhaps, be adapted for those with dementia. Theodora Bredie (a Montessori teacher) left a comment confirming it could - but it made me wonder: how many care homes, hospitals and centres are using it?The Montessori method was originally designed for children with learning disabilities. Now it is a sought-after form of nursery education for children of all abilities. My own children attended one and I based my method of teaching drama on the muscle memory and five sense techniques. Seeing a reluctant child develop into one who is confident enough to use his or her imagination to create an imaginary object is truly magical. I am sure it would be the same working with dementia patients.I can see how it would adapt for dementia patients - even those with severe dementia - because muscle memory still works for these patients, making repetition easy for them. Arranging flowers, sorting objects and singing songs are successful exercises that muscle memory holds. Using beautiful objects in a peaceful, warm and caring environment will enable some memory to be re-opened. Recognition skills can be re-established and enjoyment in successful task completion experienced again.I appreciate that developing a Montessori programme for every patient with dementia would require time, money and staff to "buy in" to the concept. Although it is already possible to buy specifically designed Montessori equipment, it is expensive and clever improvisation can usually produce something similar. Having visited a number of care homes and witnessed residents sitting in chairs staring into space, I feel certain that, even an hour a day, would enhance their lives and give the carers a wonderful sense of fulfilment.Tom and Karen Brenner are Montessori gerontologists, researchers, consultants, trainers and writers. They work with dementia patients - using the Montessori method - while also training others in the system. If you are interested, the Alzheimer's Reading Room has some interesting writing on the subject, giving examples of patients who have benefited.Richard Ernest is also working with the five senses. He contacted me to tell me about his reminiscence pods (RemPods). These are, literally, "pop-up" rooms full of authentic furniture, wallpaper, vintage televisions, radios and record players. His most popular "pod" - used in hospitals, care homes and dementia centres - is a 1950's living room. His latest creation - a "pop-up" pub, complete with smells and sounds - is about to be unveiled in Liverpool. On these sets, dementia patients feel at home. The environment can calm them - a state carers and nurses need to unlock memories and learn more about their patients.These are just two ways of helping dementia patients. I would be interested to hear from anyone who knows of another method (judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk). I have heard of a care home who has erected a bus stop in the grounds for residents whose dementia puts them back in a work mode. They can be directed to the bus stop - after which their panic usually subsides and all thought of work is forgotten.We spend an inordinate amount of time stimulating the imagination of our children, allowing them to experience seeing, hearing, smelling, touching and tasting. I can't help but think that people with dementia should be given some of that stimulation. Perhaps then their sense of isolation could be eased and some of the anger and frustration they feel could be dissipate. Surely we owe our elderly as much time and attention as our children.