Arlene Phillips - best known as a choreographer of West End musicals and a judge on Strictly Come Dancing - recently confronted the Prime Minister with the question: "How do you propose to 'teach nurses to care for people with dementia'?" Aged 77, Arlene's father developed Alzheimer's disease and, as the condition took hold, it became necessary for him to live in a care home. Visiting him in the first of these care homes, Arlene witnessed a carer "scolding him roundly" for failing to do up his buttons correctly. On another occasion, at lunch time, she discovered him in his room with no food. Being unable to find his way to the dining room, he had simply been forgotton - not an isolated incident.How I wish these were rare examples of the complete disdain in which some carers and nurses hold elderly patients - with or without dementia - but, heartbreakingly, reports of this sort of lack of compassion are growing apace.Following some of my previous blog posts on the subject, I was contacted by many readers whose experiences were as bad - and sometimes worse - than that of Arlene. However, Margaret - the nurse manager of a residential care home in Scarborough - wrote to tell me of her team and their dedication to giving the residents the highest possible quality of life.She wrote passionately of her work and how she feels that "without the qualities of dedication, unselfishness and passion, we just become robots." How true. She finished her email by saying: "There surely has to be something that ordinary, truly caring folk like ourselves can do."Yes Margaret, there is - continue with your good work but weed out instantly anyone who falls short of your rightly high standards. With the medical and caring professions goes a duty of care - which is a legal obligation. Therefore, anyone found treating patients in hospital wards or residents in care homes with a lack of common courtesy, compassion or a disregard for their basic needs should be sacked on the spot. There are far too many unsuitable nurses and carers doing the job for all the wrong reasons.I understand that a module called "Compassion" is about to be introduced into the nursing university degree course. Why did no one think it was necessary before now?Maybe the Montessori system - for working with the very young - could adapt its training course to teach nurses and carers how to treat the elderly with respect, how to adopt the right atmosphere and how to ensure each patient or resident is treated as an individual, not just a name.Working with the elderly and infirm is not very different to working with the under-fives - I do not mean that the elderly should be patronised, but that in an atmosphere of calmness, peacefulness, happiness, honesty, patience and a genuine show of care and interest, people thrive. Patients and carers alike.I wonder how much this lack of compassion is a reflection of the way society is now losing all the standards with which I grew up? How many people say "please" and "thank you", how many people think of others before themselves; how many people understand the meaning of "duty" and "loyalty?In response to Arlene Phillips, the Prime Minister said: "Dementia is a terrible disease. It is a scandal that we have failed to keep pace with it. It is as though we have been in collective denial". Yes, we have and one of the reasons is that, all too often, there is no proper diagnosis of dementia - let alone which type it is, of the more than 110 recognised strains. Persuading a GP to make the diagnosis is almost impossible. A wave of the hand and "It's dementia and it doesn't matter which kind. The end result is the same." is not good enough. There is medication available to halt or slow certains types of dementia - if caught early enough.The care of the elderly would be greatly enhanced if GPs visited them on a regular basis. This would mean that the "norm" of a patient is recognised by the GP, so any changes can be noted and family alerted sooner rather than later. None of us want to think about our parents or elderly relations developing dementia and, all to often, we assume wrongly that early signs of the disease are just "old age" and we struggle on managing the situation, without realising that the symptoms are much more than age-related.My mother-in-law's GP never visits her in her care home, has never officially diagnosed her form of dementia and, if she seems under the weather - much to the fury of the clinical lead at the local hospital - simply instructs the carers at the home to "call for an ambulance and send her to hospital". His surgery is five minutes away, but only on one occasion - when I happened to be visiting her and she became ill - did he take the trouble to drive round and see her. On 99 per cent of occasions she is sent straight back from the hospital - although often incurring a long wait for transport. These emergency calls have wasted valuable ambulance time and, sometimes - due to lack of ambulances in the area - the vehicle has had to make a 40-mile journey to reach the care home. This is patently ridiculous.Would it not be possible for GPs to adopt a scheme run by some Sheffield doctors, who hold a surgery in each residential home once a week? I suspect that many GPs would excuse themselves from such an enterprise on the grounds that "they do not have the time". Oh yes they do! As GPs now only work during the day, they have all those evenings and weekends. A rota system would not take up too much of their spare time. After all, no more do they have to climb out of bed in the middle of the night to attend to a patient - the out-of-hours service steps in for them.If David Cameron is serious about taking care of our elderly, perhaps the Government would extend its financial incentive scheme - now applied to smoking and drinking, where the GP is paid for each time he or she asks a patient about his or her consumption of cigarettes or alcohol - to cover visits to every elderly patient. At a stroke, it would transform the quality of life of everyone over the age of 75. Apart from evidence of early dementia, malnutrition, depression or maltreatment would be identified quickly. It is a cheap and easy solution, which would demonstrate his sincerity about addressing the needs of the elderly.Just recently, on BBC Breakfast, a lady who had been a professor of nursing - now suffering from early Alzheimer's - described the tests and treatment given to her by her consultant, who was another professor and appeared with her on the programme. She talked about the short memory test, followed by a long hour-and-a-half test and then a brain scan. I listened with amazement. Would she, I wonder, have received all that attention if she had been merely a bum on a seat? No, she would have joined all those struggling with the early signs of dementia for whom there is no medical intervention.As Arlene says: "It is little to ask that, if the minds of our loved ones fail them, we should take for granted that those entrusted with their care do - indeed - look after them." Arlene's father died 12 years ago but her experience of the lack of care and dignity given to her Father at that time, is still happening to people now - in fact, it is becoming worse.The Prime Minister conceded that "the lack of compassion in the NHS is the biggest problem we have".
Maybe we could start by interviewing candidates for medical school - doctors and nurses - and ensuring that they actually have a vocation. That way, the compassion module would not be needed.