Twitter may be regarded by some  as frivolous but, on some occasions, it can be the door which opens between two people interested in the same subject - and, recently, that happened to me.I tweet rarely but check my dateline every day, which is how I discovered that the James Lind Alliance was following me on Twitter. Not being medically trained, I am afraid that the Alliance had passed me by. However, a small amount of research brought me to its website - www.lindalliance.org - which describes its very worthwhile work.The Alliance is named after James Lind, who was a Scottish naval surgeon and a pioneer of clinical trials. In 1753, with his crew - and, indeed, the whole navy - suffering from scurvy (which was killing more men than warefare) he carried out the first clinical trial, the result of which showed the success of oranges and lemons against the five other remedies.Launched in 2004, The James Lind Initiative, which is funded by the National Institute for Health Research, includes the James Lind Alliance. The Initiative lobbies for better randomised controlled trials, "because these studies can provide some of the most important information needed to improve healthcare". There is a mass of information in the James Lind Library - www.jameslindlibrary.org. This ever-growing digital resource contains images of key passages of text from books and journal articles, "illustrating the evolution of fair tests of medical treatments".The Alliance is funded by The Department of Health and the Medical Research Council and is a facilitator of: "Priority Setting Partnerships to identify and prioritise for research, the treatment uncertainties which are most important to them. The definition of 'treatment uncertainty' is where there does not exist any up-to-date, reliable systematic reviews of research evidence(s) - addressing the particular or relevant "uncertainty" about the effects of treatment."When I read the above, I wilted slightly. I wonder sometimes at the medical world's use of the English language! It all sounded complicated and, possibly, just another another think-tank. However, I took a breath and read on and thank goodness I did so.My first discovery was that patients play a serious part in the Priority Setting Partnerships. Discussions include patients, clinicians and carers - so the real world is well represented. An important point made on the website is that "phrmaceutical and medical technology industries and academia play an essential role in developing new treatments. However, their priorities are not necessarily the same as those of patients and clinicians." Judging by my email inbox, I think many people would say "hear hear" to that.An example given was on the subject of the management of osteoarthritis in the knee, where the Priority Setting Partnership found that there was "little enthusiasm for the studies of drugs that the pharmaceutical industry typically supports. Instead, patients and clinicians wanted more rigorous evaluation of physiotherapy and surgery and better assessment of educational and coping strategies, which might help patients manage the condition".This all looked very promising and, by now, I had worked out the medical academic vocabulary so I read further. The work of the Alliance is wide-reaching and there is a myriad of Priority Setting Partnerships but I found two subjects of particular interest to me.First of all, a PSP for Prostate Cancer. The Alliance was approached by Prostate Action, Prostate Cancer Support Federation and Prostate Cancer Charter for Action with a request for the Alliance to develop and manage a PSP. Among the long list of treatment uncertainties discussed between patients and clinicians were "Is there a genetic marker for prostate cancer that would be more sensitive and more specific than PSA serum level?" "Are there any dietary measures that can prevent prostate cancer or slow its progression?" "What about a vaccine?" and "Does GPs' awareness of the condition affect the outcome for the patient?" The research was completed in 2009 and the results have "informed" the research strategy of Prostate Action.I hope that those who would wish that the profile of prostate cancer was higher will be pleased that there are, at least, three organisations beavering away with research and support. I suspect there will be many who read this who could have given evidence to the question about GPs' awareness of the condition. This is a much stated complaint from men.The second PSP which caught my eye, is about to commence. This has been initiated by The Alzheimer's Society and will work with dementia patients, carers, former carers, health and social care professionals to identify uncertainties about the diagnosis, prevention, treatment and care of dementia patients.The charity hopes that the PSP will help to identify and prioritise the unanswered questions about dementia, in order to influence future research and make sure it addresses the questions that matter most to the person with dementia - who, all too often, is overlooked in the whirlwind of research and funding.Once this PSP is up and running, there will be a questionnaire on the Alzheimer's Society's website and the charity would like to hear from anyone with experience of dementia.Please log onto www.alzheimers.org.uk. I will be adding my family's experience of this heartbreaking disease and the hope that the "uncertainty" of diagnosis - or lack of it - might be added to the list, along with persuading GPs to visit their patients with dementia on a regular basis and a plea for doctors to liaise with the patient's family.I could not be more pleased to have discovered The James Lind Alliance and am now an Affiliate of the organisation - and find myself in the company of my fellow cancer blogger Verity Reily Collins (http://after-cancer.com/).The Alliance hopes that "addressing uncertainties about the effects of treatments should become accepted as a much more routine part of clinical practice". A perfect example being that patients taking part in the Asthma Priority Setting Partnership who identified breathing exercises as a possible research topic. Such a simple idea but it needed the Alliance to facilitate the right setting for the patient's voice be heard and the idea taken forward.