Three emails dropped into my inbox last week, all of them describing a test - at various stages of research - which, if proved to work, will improve patients' chances of early diagnosis or more effective, speedier and cheaper forms of treatment.Barrett's oesophagus puts patients at risk of developing oesophageal cancer. The condition affects patients with severe and persistent heartburn or indigestion where the oesophagus is exposed to acid and bile - known as gastro-oesphageal reflux or GORD. Abnormal cells may develop on the inner lining of the lower part of the oesophagus, which begins to resemble those in the small and large intestines. For 1 in 10 patients these cells will become cancerous. The UK has the highest level of this form of oesophageal cancer in Europe; it is one of the most difficult cancers to diagnose; only 13% of people with the disease survive for 5 years. Over the last 25 years, the number of cases in men rose by 50% but the number in women by only 8%. The reason for this seems unclear. At the moment, the test for Barretts involves an endoscopy and biopsy, which can be uncomfortable and expensive.
Funded by the Medical Research Council - and based on a Japanese test first used 40 years ago - the new procedure uses a capsule attached to a piece of string. The patient swallows the capsule which dissolves in the stomach, expanding to form a 3 cm sponge. After 5 minutes, the sponge is gently pulled out by the string and, on the way, removes a small sample of the cells lining the oesophagus.  Dr. Paul Salmon of the Barretts Campaign charity said "This is novel technology, cheap and available but we need studies to compare its results with those of trans-nasal endoscopy". Clearly, this is a much cheaper option - £25 as opposed to £400 for a traditional endoscopy - and a less invasive test. However, it appears that only 17% of patients have agreed to try the test, which makes proving the case particularly difficult. Having had experience of an endoscopy I would go with the sponge any time.Prostate cancer is the most common form of male cancer. Tests used currently are uncomfortable and not totally reliable.  For the last 3 years, the University of Surrey - with funds from the Prostate Project - have been developing a test which uses a few drops of urine only. The test looks for the ENA protein which, according to Prostate Cancer Charity's CEO, Owen Sharpe "could potentially be used to determine whether or not prostate cancer has developed". He added "Although the results of the study need to be proven on a much larger scale - and there is some way to go before EN2 can be a stand-alone test - a reliable urine test for prostate cancer would be an exciting and invaluable breakthrough."
Once again, this test would be cheaper - less than £100 - and the results would be available within minutes.  GPs could have desktop kits and there is even the possibility of a test kit for home use. If this test is proved to be viable, surely then widespread screening - on a par with breast screening - would come into play? For too long - despite the stirling work of the prostate charities - this form of cancer does not catch the public's attention in the same way as does breast cancer. Perhaps men are put off by the current invasive test?Scientists in Boston USA have developed a blood test which is so sensitive that it can spot a single cancer cell among billions of healthy ones. Johnson and Johnson are joining forces with researchers at  Massachusetts General Hospital to bring the test to market. This is particularly significant for patients with breast, prostate, colon or lung cancers.  With modern treatments being tailor-made for each patient, this test will be vital for predicting the best treatment for each tumour - and then for finding out quickly whether or not it is working. If not, another treatment can be tried without having to wait until a full-blown secondary cancer develops. At present, doctors only have expensive tests like colonoscopies on which to rely. This would be like a "liquid biopsy", without painful samples of tissue being taken. Is there a possibility that this will mean the end of needle biopsies? I hope so.While none of these three tests are, as yet, proven and available - and are but a microcosm of all the current global research - it lifts the spirits to know that this sort of work is being undertaken and positive results are within sight.
www.barrettscampaign.org.uk
www.prostate-cancer.org.uk