Along with thousands of people, I take a few vitamin and mineral supplements. Choosing them is incredibly confusing. It requires laboriously comparing the strength of each ingredient in each make of capsule or tablet; noting the number required by the different brands to be taken each day; and, always, finding myself newly shocked by the prices I am paying for something about which there is little published evidence of effectiveness.As I scan the shelves, I am aware that - apart from magnesium, which works wonders for my "restless" legs - I might never know whether or not my eyesight, joints or brain power would have deteriorated faster without spending a small fortune every month. Am I buying blindly something which I simply assume helps? Should I be choosing the most expensive variety in the hope that it is the purest? Apart from these questions, I never understand why the manufacturers insist on filling the packets with 30 tablets and then stipulating that we should take two a day; why not simply make one double-strength tablet and charge accordingly? Or why the little brown jars containing tablets are only a quarter full - use smaller jars!The NHS line on supplements is found on its website: "Most people can get all the vitamins and minerals they need by eating a balanced, varied diet". Nice suggests a few variations on that theme - folic acid for pregnant women and a multi-vitamin for young children - but that is all. Yet there is a huge industry out there, which fills the shelves with bottles, packets and jars.Indeed, each week I receive emails promoting the efficacy of vitamin and mineral supplements. Other emails, however, tell me of cancer patients' experiences - "I was told to adopt a vegan diet and take 30 vitamins a day (including wild salmon oil)"; "I was told that chemotherapy was tolerated better if I took Life Mel Honey - but would ordinary honey have worked just as well?"; "I heard that Tamoxifen inhibits the metabolism of Vitamin D and I was taking it in mega doses to combat my hot flushes."James Congdon sent me a fascinating piece by Naomi Mead, who is a Nutritional Therapist, in which she explains how each supplement works for your body; how to take them (with what and at what time of day) - this is information not available from the manufacturers.For instance, Iron and Calcium should not be taken together because Calcium inhibits absorption of the Iron. Calcium should be taken in the evening because it is best utilised at night and Iron should be taken in the morning on an empty stomach. Zinc should not be taken with Calcium or Iron but must be taken in the afternoon. Vitamin D (which is much in the news) works best if taken with a meal in the early afternoon - because this avoids its "negative influences on sleep" and the same applies to Co-enzyme Q10. Vitamin K should be taken with vitamins D and C plus Calcium and these should be taken with dietary fats - ie milk with cereal, nuts, yoghurt and avocado. Vitamin C only lasts a few hours in the body and, therefore, the doses need to be split throughout the day. I knew none of this.It is suggested by those in the industry that we should not be buying the cheaper brands - found in high-street chains of pharmacies, supermarkets or health food shops - but choose, instead, the "natural" vitamins sold by specialist shops. The prices then quadruple.Surely all this proves that we need some form of proper research - particularly for those people with cancer, whose finances are often tight but who will try anything to rid themselves of the disease? At the moment, there is a myriad of different supplements which, by law, can say very little on their packets but, what they do say, is enough to entice a needy buyer. At least manufacturers ought to give proper instructions.For Naomi's information and analysis of each vitamin, please log on tohttp://nutritionexpert.healthspan.co.uk/a-guide-to-optimising-your-vitamins-and-supplements-intakeWould we be better to do as the NHS website suggests? Even that seems fraught with problems. Log on to The Food for Breast Cancer website and you will find a list of foods to eat and to avoid while taking Tamoxifen. Orange peel, curcumin and tofu come under the latter - which makes me somewhat anxious as marmalade is top of my breakfast list.If you are taking supplements, Naomi has some more advice, including:Take with water or orange juice - NOT with hot drinks because the caffeine in tea and coffee can cancel out the benefits.
Keep in a cool, dark place
Do not double the dose if you have forgotten - or exceed the dose.
Lastly, and most importantly, always check with the doctor before taking any supplements, particularly if you are already on medication.Please email me with your experiences:  judith.potts@telegraph.co.ukMore by Judith Potts:
 Ovarian cancer - hope for the future
 Nice has some serious questions to answer
 Attitudes towards breast cancer have changed