Moving Forward is the name given to Breast Cancer Care's new free resource pack "for people living with and beyond breast cancer". It has been a work in progress for a long time but the finished product covers, in great detail, all the issues - large or small - which people encounter once their hospital-based treatment has come to an end.Breast Cancer Care has listened to patients, breast care nurses, oncologists and psychologists and has collated an enormous amount of information to help you "approach life after treatment with confidence".As I write this, I have the pack beside me and it is very impressive. Inside the front cover is tucked a DVD of exercises to help with recovery from breast cancer. Called "Getting fitter, feeling stronger" the DVD includes a quote from Jane Hinnrichs (who has had breast cancer and is BCC's Chair of Trustees) who says, from her own experience: "I know that the legacy of many of the treatments for breast cancer can be quite overwhelming."  This encapsulates perfectly how we all feel as we try to move forward - overwhelmed in every sense. Behind the DVD, is a "free delivery voucher from Asda.  The supermarket chain is a big supporter of BCC and will be funding the next print run of Moving Forward.The six sections of the pack are: managing the effects of treatment; signs and symptoms of recurrence; you and your relationships; improving wellbeing; finance, work and practical issues; the stories of four breast cancer patients. At the back is a resume of all the support offered by the charity. The information is well-written, easy to understand, reassuring and supportive. Throughout the pack - and pertaining to each section - are coping suggestions or viewpoints from people who have experienced breast cancer. Also included is a questionnaire which you are invited to return, with your ideas for improving or updating the resource.I know, from the emails I receive, that moving forward is what is expected of you after a couple of years - somehow you feel (or are made to feel) that you "should be better", you "should be back to your old self" and you "should have put it all behind you". However helpful and supportive have been family and friends, there may be a finite point to this, when - very often - positivity is expected from you and you begin to feel the need to hide your feelings. This can put a huge strain on relationships and friendships.The side-effects of treatment can be equally distressing and add to the difficulties of moving on. Your memory can be affected; your fitness reduced; fatigue and insomnia may become a problem; and, for some people (particularly those living on their own) depression descends - and, without the medical support offered by the hospital during your treatment, all sorts of fears and anxieties manifest themselves.Sometimes it helps to meet others who have been through the same experience and BCC runs such groups, including a weekend forum for young people with breast cancer - but that does not work for everyone. Some people prefer to speak to a breast cancer nurse or trained counsellor and, for these people, BCC has a dedicated helpline - 0808 800 6000. If you feel happy speaking on the telephone - but not face-to-face - BCC runs telephone support groups (with an experienced breast care nurse on hand to answer questions). Alternatively, there are  web-based Live-chat sessions - again, with a specialist nurse available.Alongside the Moving Forward pack, Breast Cancer Care has launched a website on which you can upload your photograph and a short message, sharing your thoughts of life after breast cancer. The gallery is divided into four sections - the first two years; 2-3 years; 3-5 years and beyond 5 years. The launch was very recent but, already, the gallery is filling up - and it makes very interesting and inspirational reading. I recommend it thoroughly. Men are represented on the gallery too - and, although the resource pack is aimed at women, is will also be of interest to men. Specific issues faced by men with breast cancer, are covered in the BCC publication "Men with Breast Cancer".There are - at least - 600 nurses who have already signed up for a Moving Forward pack.  Some of these are breast cancer nurses but all actively want to be kept updated, so that they can give their own support to breast cancer patients.It seems to me that these packs should be available, not only in hospitals, but in every surgery, health care centre or workplace medical centre. Are there any in yours?  If not, why not bring it to the attention of the practice nurse, GP or human resources department?To order a pack for yourself, someone else or for your surgery or health centre, log on to
www.breastcancercare.org.uk/mfpack
or, for the gallery of pictures, log onto
www.breastcancercare.org.uk/mfgallery