The National Cancer Research Institute - made up of 21 partners from government, charities and the Association of the Pharmaceutical Industry - is celebrating its 10th year in existence. Since its inception, the amount of money spent on cancer research has doubled - last year the figure was £504 million.The complicated breakdown of this amount shows - and I quote from Cancer Research UK's press release - that:I can hear immediately the voices of prostate cancer patients who feel they are forgotten.  I have received many emails - and comments have been left at the bottom of my blog - from frustrated prostate cancer patients who ask why there is so little research and support for them. I am gathering material for a future blog post - so please email me with your stories and comments.Meanwhile, after absorbing the fact that £504 million was spent on cancer research last year, I began to muse on just how much the NHS depends on the cancer charities - firstly for campaigning tirelessly to make treatment options more easily available for patients and then for raising the money to buy the treatment systems.In Northern Ireland, the Pink Ladies - a breast cancer support group in Londonderry - joined others in petitioning Edwin Poots (the new Health Minister) for a radiotherapy centre to be opened in the city. So swayed was he by their campaign with thousands of signatures - particularly when he heard one lady's story of travelling 200 miles a day to Belfast for 10 minutes of treatment; the journey could take seven hours on cold winter days - that he overrode the previous Minister's decision and agreed to co-fund (with £19 million from the Irish government) a radiotherapy centre at the Altnagelvin Hospital. Work is underway and the centre will open in 2016.In Birmingham, the Queen Elizabeth Hospital's charity has raised enough to help fund two TomoTherapy TomoHD radiotherapy machines - the first in the country. These machines are combined radiotherapy machines and CT scanners and "deliver ultra precise, targeted image-guided intensity modulated radiotherapy". Provided by Oncology Systems Ltd (a British company based in Shropshire) this system enables clinicians to develop 3D maps of the size and location of the tumour.  Using a single beam of radiation, which divides into thousands of beamlets, radiation is delivered from all angles quickly and painlessly.  The precise and accurate nature of the treatment means that normal, sensitive tissue can be avoided - thus there are fewer side effects than from standard radiotherapy.Money is still being raised by QEHB for a CyberKnife - a state-of-the-art piece of radiotherapy equipment that allows some tumours (once thought to be inoperable) to be treated painlessly without the need for surgery. The treatment - carried out by specialist oncologists - is so accurate that tumours can be targeted directly with pencil beams of radiation but without damaging surrounding areas and without the stressful and claustrophobic experience of a brace. The robotic arm detects any movement of the patient and adjusts itself accordingly.QEHB exists to fund equipment, research and training over and above that which is provided by the NHS. I wonder - do all hospitals now have their own charities? Clearly, without QEHB, the people of Birmingham would be waiting a good deal longer than this autumn for their TomoTherapyHD machines.So far there are TomoTherapy Hi-Art machines in the radiotherapy departments of Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge; The Cromwell Cancer Centre, London; Guys and St. Thomas' Hospitals, London; The James Cook University Hospital, Middlesbrough; The Freeman Hospital, Newcastle; and Nottingham City Hospital.However - and forgive me if I re-mount my hobbyhorse - there are still far too many people travelling vast distances (like they were - and will be for a while - in Northern Ireland) to undergo their radiotherapy treatment. Worse still, some breast cancer patients - who live a great distance from the nearest treatment centre - are still having to choose between a mastectomy or the rigours of a daily lengthy journey.I suspect it would require more generosity from local people to achieve this, but Oncology Systems have a "relocatable radiotherapy treatment suite" which can be up and running in five weeks. The Pioneer requires only the treatment staff to be on-site, as planning services can be run remotely from OSL or from a hospital department. The suite does not even need to be based in the grounds of a hospital.Reading emails and comments from Americans who are perplexed as to why our radiotherapy machines are not all up-to-date, it would seem that the UK lags behind the USA and Europe in installing targeted radiotherapy technology in its hospitals. Judging by stories from patients in the UK, it appears that the country lags behind in providing enough of any form of radiotherapy equipment.With the current financial situation, will the much-needed funding dry up? Will the people who work so hard to campaign for treatment options and treatment systems for their local hospitals find the will to continue? Should we be relying on a hospital's own charity to fund upgraded or new equipment? Will there be another £504 million next year for cancer research? What do you think?Email me at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk