Following the shocking revelation this week that doctors are being forced to prescribe water for their hospital patients - because the nurses cannot be relied upon to "nurse" their patients and ensure that the elderly eat and drink - I looked again at the many emails sent to me on the subject of poor treatment of the elderly by hospital staff.Every single one of them describes how the elderly person became dehydrated in hospital, either because the nurses and care assistants did not bother to check whether or not the patient was drinking the water provided, or - because the patient's dementia caused spillage - the water was removed altogether but no nurse nor carer remembered to offer water on a regular basis.As we all know, dehydration in babies or the elderly has to be taken extremely seriously. Surely it is as important to note the amount drunk or eaten by a patient, as it is to record when the medication is taken? There are examples of patients literally starving to death in NHS wards.I wonder - would these uncaring and unprofessional nurses treat a baby in this way?  I doubt it. I suspect that these nurses think you are over 65, therefore you have had your life and now you are just a nuisance. Would they allow their relatives to be treated so badly?In February, the Health Ombudsman - Ann Abraham - published her Care and Compassion Report. She studied ten cases: eight were complaints about hospital care and two about GP care. The hospitals involved were Ealing; Royal Bolton; Southampton University; Heart of England; Oxford Radcliffe; Ashford and St. Peter's; Surrey and Borders Partnership; Northern Lincolnshire and Goole; but the report recognised that these were in no way isolated examples. Patients are experiencing a similar lack of care in every NHS Trust. She describes the serious complaints as "sickening". To read her report, go to www.ombudsman.org.uk/care-and-compassion/home.One cancer patient's daughter, who gave evidence, said she arrived at the hospital to collect her father - he wanted to die at home - and discovered that he was so badly dehydrated he could neither speak nor swallow. He had been ignored for several hours, was in agony and in desperate need of the toilet. It beggars belief that a ward of "nurses" could allow an elderly person to be treated in this way.What were they doing?  Where were they - gathered round the nurses' station with their backs to the ward? Now they have to acquire a degree to be a nurse, does this mean they feel they are above routine tasks? Do they think they are only there to dispense medication - without ever actually talking to the patient? Are they spending too long in university classrooms, being taught by tutors who have either never been nurses, or have forgotten the most important ingredient of a good nurse's personality - not his or her ability to pass examinations but his or her desire to nurse. Compassion and care, once an integral part of the make-up of a good nurse, have flown out of the dirty hospital windows.This is not a new issue. Six years ago, my father-in-law, who had severe short-term memory loss, was in hospital in Sheffield with bladder cancer.  Despite the repeated conversations I had with the nurses - in an attempt to make sure he did not become dehydrated - none of them listened. "There is water beside him.", I was told. "But he won't remember to drink it. He has chronic short-term memory loss.", I responded.  "Does he?" said the nurse.  By that time he had been there for 3 days.  Clearly no one had taken the trouble to speak to him. I did my best for him, but to no avail.  He became seriously dehydrated and died within days. At the time I thought he had been unlucky with the nurses on the ward - perhaps they were not used to nursing patients with memory problems? Now I realise it was an all-too familiar pattern.In a similar vein, one of my correspondents describes how her father's dementia prevented him from remembering that his wife had died. One by one the nurses demanded to know why his wife was not visiting, because he was asking for her. The situation was duly explained to each one, but no note was ever made and no one listened. Eventually, worn down by the questioning, the patient's family created a sign to hang above his bed to remind the staff he was a widower - but the nurses ignored it.Sadly, we can cite thousands more examples - but the case is proven. Perhaps the nurses will now focus on what they are going to do about this situation rather than playing politics.At their recent annual conference, the nurses as usual passed a vote of "no confidence" in the Health Secretary.  This time it was the turn of Andrew Lansley. If I took a straw poll from my readers and correspondents, I suspect they would pass a similar vote of "no confidence" - in NHS nurses.Perhaps it is time to look again at the real meaning of the word "nurse" - the verb means to care and protect.