Do you read all the small print on your insurance policies? I suspect most of us take a quick glance and assume that the name of the policy tells its own story - but, with a critical illness policy, it seems that the insurance company's description of "critical" does not always tally with the patient's definition.Particularly for self-employed people - with a mortgage and business to protect - an insurance policy which would pay out to cover the time needed for surgery and/or treatment could make all the difference and offer peace of mind at an incredibly difficult time.It is bad enough that there are few reputable insurance companies which offer reasonably priced travel insurance for people who have - or have had - cancer or other long-term illnesses, but now it seems that large insurance companies have been writing even more small print into their critical illness insurance policies. If you do read the whole policy, do you understand the medical terms used by the insurance company? Do you know exactly what is included and excluded?A critical illness policy can come with extensive small print - for instance, excluding any form of cancer which can be described as "in situ". This means that the insurance company will neither pay out if a breast cancer patient has a lumpectomy followed by radiotherapy nor - extraordinarily - after more major surgery, where a mastectomy is required and which will, inevitably, require a longer convalescence. For the insurance company to honour its part of the bargain, the cancer needs to have spread to other parts of the body. With surgery and weeks of treatment ahead, this is not the time for the added pressure of financial worries. Discovering that the small print excludes your cancer - because it is not serious enough - and, then, calculating just how much you have paid in premiums, for a return of nil, would make you feel you might just as well have thrown the much-needed money into the river. Or, perhaps, more constructively, could have set it aside in a savings account to fund yourself, if the need arises.Cancer is not the only illness for which insurance companies have devised grades of severity. It is advisable for everyone who takes out a critical illness policy to look and see just what is and is not covered. Very often there is a specific description of how severe an illness has to be before the policy pays out - and the type of surgery used can preclude payments; some insurance companies will not pay out for key-hole surgery.The Association of British Insurers states that "in situ cancers have an excellent cure rate" and that is the reason given for excluding non-invasive cancers - but the surgery and treatment for a non-invasive cancer can take weeks or months, during which time, for all sorts of reasons, it is not always possible to continue to work. Speed of recovery from surgery, the side effects of treatment, distance and time needed to travel for treatment - or the very nature of the job itself; all can preclude earning during this time.Is there, perhaps, a policy somewhere out there which covers non-invasive cancers?Macmillan Cancer Support has worked with the ABI to improve and simplify the wording on these critical illness policies but it is still imperative that you read carefully all the small print. The title of the policy does not always reflect its terms.There is a website- www.criticalillnessinsider.com - which offers advice on how to choose the most appropriate policy for you.On a more positive note, my next blog post will bring good news about travel insurance for breast cancer patients.