This is a very sad week.My friend Lis Sladen has died. Lis played Sarah Jane to the Doctor Who of Jon Pertwee and Tom Baker and then found a new generation following her in The Sarah Jane Adventures. She is yet another friend whose life has been lost to cancer. Lis was not only extremely talented but funny, vivacious, kind, caring and great company. We were friends and near neighbours for 25 years, during which time she limited her work in order to bring up her daughter - and then "The Sarah Jane Adventures" came along, at just the right moment, and she was lured back to time travel.When I was diagnosed with breast cancer, she was immediately on the telephone from the "Sarah Jane" film set in Cardiff, offering support, advice and suggestions from her own experience - and she was right about it all. I am lucky to have known her and will never forget her. Through our sadness we will see her live on in her wonderful daughter, Sadie,  in whom she had such justifiable pride.Not only will Lis be missed hugely by her actor husband, Brian Miller, by Sadie and by all her friends and work colleagues, but also by the television audience who - as children - were devoted to her and who have been thrilled that "Sarah Jane" returned to be part of their children's lives.It seems that not a week goes by without a friend or acquaintance being diagnosed with cancer.  Much has been written about the possibility of a vaccine which might attack the cancer cells in a different way to the drugs in use at the moment. Just last week there were newspaper reports of a TeloVac "jab" - a vaccine which could be used as treatment rather than prevention (which is the usual role of a vaccine). Developed to treat pancreatic cancer, there are suggestions that it might be successfully used on liver, lung, breast and prostate cancers too. The vaccine harnesses the body's own defence mechanism - the immune system - to fight the disease. Apparently it works as though a "blindfold" on the immune system has been removed and, by doing so, an enzyme called telomerase, (high levels of which is found in cancer cells and which, up to now, has made them "immortal") can be identified by the immune system and destroyed. Healthy cells  have a low level of telomerase and remain unaffected - which, in turn, means less nausea and hair loss. The results of the trial will be available in 2012.Dr Jay Sangjae Kim from the Korean company which has developed TeloVac said: "We strongly believe this has the potential to overcome the limits of other current cancer vaccines and become part of the standard of care, not only for pancreatic cancer but for various types of cancers. In other words, a truly universal vaccine will be available in the near future."Sadly, this will come too late for Lis - but for countless others, the possibility of prevention and treatment by such a vaccine may bring hope.