When a cancer charity has the word "research" in its title, you would be forgiven for assuming that is all it does - researches for new treatments.However, if you look at Cancer Research UK's website, you will discover that it does a good deal more and, this year, this charity is among three organisations, chosen by The Daily Telegraph for its Christmas Appeal. This charity is as much about spreading the word about prevention and cause, as it is about research for the cure.First, the research - this arm of the charity runs 19 Experimental Cancer Medicine Centres, where cancer patients - whose cancer is advanced and who have undergone all available treatments and now have only months or weeks to live - are invited to take part in testing new drugs.  Victoria Lambert - in last weekend's Telegraph magazine - described several such patients, their illnesses and their decisions to try experimental treatments.Some of these drugs will have been developed by the Clinical Development Partnerships.  This section of Cancer Research UK takes anti-cancer drugs, which pharmaceutical companies have "deprioritised" - that is, "given up on" -  and puts them through trials. If a drug proves to be successful, the pharmaceutical company retains the option to take the drug back and develop it for patients - but Cancer Research UK does not lose out because it would, then, receive a share of the revenue. Pharmaceutical companies sometimes abandon work on anti cancer drugs because of the time factor and the cost involved - it can take up to 10 years and hundreds of millions of pounds before these drugs arrive on the pharmacy shelf. This way, new medicines can be  developed for use, particularly, with the more rare cancers.There are Cancer Research UK centres in 30 towns and cities across the UK and, on its website, there is an interactive map on which you can find your nearest research centre.  There are other very helpful interactive parts of the website. The charity believes that half the number of cancer cases could be prevented by a change in diet and lifestyle and offers The Healthy Living Quiz - which asks all the relevant questions about alcohol, food and the sun - is easy to complete and the results (smiley or frowning faces) tell you whether or not you need to think about changing your lifestyle choices.Then there is Cancer Help UK, which provides answers to all the questions a cancer patient is likely to ask and offers information about every aspect of cancer;  there are experienced cancer nurses, who can be contacted by email or telephone and will be happy to explain and advise; and there is the newly re-launched Cancer Chat forum - on which patients and their families can share their experiences.  If you are on your own when you receive the diagnosis - depending, of course, on the doctor, the nurses and the unit's policy - the shock can be so great that it is not always possible to take in everything you are being told.  To be able to speak to a nurse - before, during or after surgery and treatment - is a huge help. I know, too, that many people enjoy being able to "chat" on an internet forum (and this is a well-moderated one) and find it gives them enormous support.As it says on Cancer Research UK's website - "Every two minutes someone is diagnosed with cancer". Its scientists have "contributed to most of the world's top cancer drugs" and it is the charity's aim to "ensure more people survive". The website gives the patient information about types of treatment, trials and research and - so important to every patient - how to cope with cancer.Cancer Research UK's work is entirely funded by the public - both its research and the all important patient care which it offers.If you would like to make a donation, please have a look at the charity appeal page.