Whether it is after chemotherapy or as a side-effect of medication, the scalp can become incredibly sensitive and some hair products irritate the delicate skin. However, a head of the right colour of hair is of great importance to many women but, sometimes, the re-grown hair is an unacceptable grey - in which case a permanent colour is required because, as I am sure you know, semi-permanent colours do not cover grey!There is also the choice of shampoo and conditioner and, in a previous blog post, I advocated the use of organic, chemical-free products. There are some expensive brands like A'kin - used by Kylie Minogue after her breast cancer - and some very reasonably priced ones, such as the Wish range - used by me! Wish products are available by phoning 020 8563 0577 and discussing which of the range is right for your hair, or by visiting Wish, at 150 Hammersmith Road, London W6 7JP.Recently, I have discovered something called an holistic "Mind Brush".  This is a specially designed hairbrush by Valentino Holistics, made from maplewood and, as you use it, the bristles on an anti-static rubber pad massage your scalp.  The suggestion is that the massaging helps to "relax the nervous system, activate toxin removal and stimulate the sebaceous glands, thus keeping the nervous system in harmony with your body".  The brush comes with a description of how to use it to achieve improvement in the "texture and condition of the hair by stimulating the circulation". I am following Valentino's suggested brushing routine and it certainly feels wonderful.  If you would like to order a Valentino Mind Brush call 020 7937 6911.Dear JudithMy hair has re-grown after chemotherapy but it is grey and I would like to colour it because I think it would make me look and feel better. I am worried about which product my hairdresser should use. Do you know of a safe one?DianaDear Diana,I don't believe that there is any hair colouring product which can be declared totally safe and it is very important to take advice from your oncologist and the cancer nurses. If they feel you are far enough along the road from the end of your chemotherapy treatment and they agree that you can now think about colouring your hair, there is an organic product called Herbatint (or Colour Herbe in the salons). This is the most gentle of hair colouring products with no ammonia and only three per cent peroxide. To find out more details visit www.colourherbe.co.uk. With it goes an Aloe Vera shampoo and conditioner.Again, I must stress that every person's skin reaction to these sort of products is different and it is essential to consult an experienced hairdresser who will conduct a skin test of the product 48 hours before colouring the hair - and make sure enough time has passed between the end of chemotherapy and the beginning of a new hair colour.JudithIf you have questions on any aspect of cancer - except a medical diagnosis - please email me in complete confidence to "Ask Judith" at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk and I will do my best to help.  Should your question be published, your name would be included only with your permission.