One of the most frequently asked questions on emails to me - since I began the Ask Judith post on this blog - has been about travel insurance. Just because we have had cancer does not mean that we should be denied the opportunity to travel - but too many people are giving up any hope of continuing to enjoy holidays and trips overseas, because of the huge premiums charged by some insurance companies.Recently, my husband and I travelled to the USA on the Queen Mary 2, spent five days in New York and travelled back on the same ship. As I have had breast cancer, my regular travel insurance company would not cover me at all and another asked for a premium of £1,000 - both also shocked me by asking questions about my cancer, which had no relevance to an insurance contract and were intensely private. Clearly, this quote would have been an impossible amount to pay and would have prevented me from going on the trip. Fortunately, I knew of a specialist insurance company - about which I had written a blog piece some months ago - and I contacted its help line. After a short conversation with a lady at the company, my premium was quoted at a much more manageable £168.Caroline wrote to me with the following question:-Dear Judith,I have got advanced breast cancer with secondaries in the bone, lung and liver and am planning a week's holiday in January to St. Lucia with my two mid twenties children.Would you suggest I simply ignore insurance for myself and get the children to do their own or do you have a better plan?Caroline Dear Caroline,I suggest you contact http://www.insurancewith.comThis is an insurance company which specialises in travel insurance for people in your situation.  The staff are all superbly trained, have a good medical knowledge, do not ask unnecessarily intrusive questions and every case is handled with great sensitivity. Their founder, Fiona Macrae, was determined that people with cancer (and many other illnesses - particularly rare ones) should have the chance to travel, without being subjected to a plethora of personal questions, nor being burdened with the vast premiums charged by other travel insurance companies.Hopefully, you will have a peaceful and illness-free week but should you have to travel home unexpectedly - or require treatment on the island - it would be extremely expensive. Obviously, this is your decision - and I have no knowledge of your budget nor that of your children - but I would recommend that you put in a call to InsuranceWith, if only to chat to one of their team about the medical services available on the island and the cost which might be involved if you were not insured.I hope that your week in the sunshine - at such a cold and dismal time of year in the UK - will be therapeutic for you.Judith If you have questions on any aspect of cancer - except a medical diagnosis - please email me in complete confidence to "Ask Judith" at  judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk and I will do my best to help. Should your question be published, your name would be included only with your permission.