In Monday's Daily Telegraph I announced the launch of my new fortnightly blog feature called "Ask Judith" and today's post is the first of these. The plan is to give everyone an opportunity to email me with any questions or concerns about cancer and how it affects the patient, the family or friends.Whether it is a question to do with lifestyle, diet, movement classes, support groups in your area, complementary therapies, beauty therapies,  insurance, treatment side effects and how to cope with them, what to tell the children, how to tell your partner or your parents, state benefits available for cancer patients or questions to ask your doctors, I will do my very best to point you in the right direction. Obviously, I cannot answer any diagnostic questions and please be assured that confidentiality is paramount: I will not use your name when publishing the answer to your question, unless you say otherwise.It is six months since I started writing this blog and I have discovered more than I could have ever imagined about how cancer affects us all. About the varied attitudes to the disease from patients, from charities and from the medical profession; and about the research that is being done and that which we hope will be done in the future - and much more.Cancer sufferers often talk about their "journey". This is my journey - and I have a long way still to go but I would like to thank you all for your comments and emails up to now - and for your great support of me and my blog. It is appreciated enormously and inspires me to continue raising awareness of the many and complex issues surrounding cancer, its causes and its prevention.Here is the first "Ask Judith" question.Dear Judith,I live on my own in a small village and I have been diagnosed with breast cancer. I have a long wait for my treatment to begin and I feel a bit lost. I don't really have anyone to confide in and I worry about what's to come. I'm not coping well - sometimes I can't sleep at night - and my treatment hasn't even started yet. There must be other people in my situation. Is there anyone who can help me?EstherDear Esther,You are by no means alone with these worries and fears.  Everyone going through the "cancer experience" needs a supportive friend.I suggest you try the Cancer Buddies Network. (www.cancerbuddiesnetwork.org)This is a global website started by Jan Rutter, who met her "cancer buddy" when they found themselves in the same hospital, going through the same cancer surgery and treatment. They supported each other through it all and, when it was over, Jan realised just how important her "buddy" had been and wanted everyone to enjoy a similar experience.You register on the website - it is all totally confidential, your email address is not revealed (unless you choose to give it to your buddy) and it is a well moderated site with rules and regulations. Once you have answered the relevant questions - type of cancer, geographical location, age, sex etc., you wait for a buddy to contact you via the website. The messaging between buddies is totally private but there is also a forum which you can join and, as the organisation is now global, this functions 24 hours a day - so for those hours of insomnia, there will always be people awake, logged on to the site, discussing their various concerns and understanding (totally) your anxieties. You can also join the network if you are a friend or family member of someone with cancer.It sounds good to me and I hope it will be of great help to you.JudithIf you have questions on any aspect of cancer - except a medical diagnosis - please email me in complete confidence at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk and I will do my best to help.