According to the National Audit Office, over 500,000 people will be diagnosed with cancer over the next two years in the UK - but the quality of care and the money spent, per head of the population, varies widely. We already know that the promise made by the previous Government that "everyone who needs to see a cancer consultant will be able to do so within two weeks" is not happening and the waiting time for treatment after diagnosis varies enormously from region to region - weeks, not days, of waiting and worrying.Now we learn from the National Audit Office that, depending on your locality, you might have as little as £55 or as much as £154 spent on your treatment "with no guarantee that those receiving the most money will get the best care". The report offers no explanation for this variance.  I assume it falls into the same category as that of appeal procedures to the PCT which are different in each area. Why?  It makes no sense.Neither is there an explanation for the doubling, in the last ten years, of the number of cancer patients admitted to hospital as emergency cases. Ignoring symptoms until they become unbearable could account for some emergencies or, if a cancer patient falls out of regular monitoring, the cancer could have returned.Even with regular monitoring, however, it seems that should patients feel there is something amiss between their allotted appointments, many of them (140,000 in 2008/9) are so unsure as to what to do, or whom to contact, that A and E is their only solution.Not every patient is lucky enough to be treated in a cancer centre where after-care is considered important and too many patients leave the hospital after their last treatment with no support system in place. I have written before about how patients feel isolated and frightened when treatment ends and they are on their own. I have also dwelt on the fact that we have lost far too many of our health visitors and district nurses, so there is no one to follow-up on the patient as he or she returns home and tries to make a life after cancer. Why was this allowed to happen? This makes no sense either because, as Ciaran Devane (Chief Executive of Macmillan Cancer Support) said: "If the NHS does not provide appropriate services after patients leave hospital, they can expect to see a massive increase in costs as cancer patients are forced to use emergency services. Abandoning cancer patients after treatment is no longer acceptable."Many of our cancer charities offer support to cancer patients and their families and some have cancer nurses to whom patients can speak in confidence and who will advise on where to go and what to do. Sadly, too few of the medical fraternity are prepared to point their patients towards these organisations. If the NHS is not going to prioritise after-care, then the least that consultants, GPs and nurses could do, would be to make use of what is already in place.A couple of months ago, I took to my GP's surgery in London a bundle of leaflets and a poster about the Breast Cancer Haven. Returning to the surgery last week I could find no trace of a leaflet and there was no poster pinned on the notice-board. There was no satisfactory explanation for that, either.I am grateful to all those who emailed me with details of large and small breast cancer support groups. The database is growing and the interest has been very heartening - please keep them coming. I would like to include, also, support groups for other cancers, for children with cancer and for rarer forms of the disease. Please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk with a description of the work of your selected organisation.