The Christmas message from The Prince of Wales included the words "Unfortunately, however, the need for The Haven's services does not diminish. I am told that one woman in eight is now diagnosed with breast cancer and the number of Visitors to The Havens in London, Hereford and Leeds has risen by more than ten per cent this year. The charity is now looking to expand to a fourth centre."As I read this, I looked around the huge congregation in the beautiful Church of St. Paul's Knightsbridge and wondered just how many women - attending The Haven's fund-raising Carol Service as supporters of the charity - would, by next Christmas, have a much closer relationship with breast cancer than they do now.It was a sobering thought and, when it was voiced by Callie Carling, the Haven Visitor (the Haven never refers to the people they help as "Patients") who took us through her experience of breast cancer, an audible intake of breath was heard.Callie spoke at the end of the Haven's Carol Service, during which the "Voce" Chamber Choir, conducted by its founder, Suzi Digby sang a programme of English and French carols, alternating with readings from actress, Sheila Reid - best known currently as Madge in "Benidorm" - Lady Gabriella Windsor and TV presenters Sophie Raworth and Gaby Roslin. Every performer worked for nothing, enabling The Haven to raise over £52,000 and enabling us, in the congregation, to enjoy beautiful and intricate singing and pertinent Christmas words, including those of our Poet Laureate, Carol Ann Duffy, whose poem "Another Night Before Christmas" was read to perfection by Sheila Reid.The money raised at this annual event goes toward running the three Havens which - with the help of Walk the Walk - now provides 10 free complementary therapy sessions for each Visitor. There are over 30 different therapies on offer - an A-Z can be found on the Haven's website - and each team of therapists is led by a specialist cancer nurse, to ensure that all therapies dovetail with the Visitor's medical treatment. Individual programmes are created for each Visitor, to help them cope with the personal challenges of living with breast cancer. Support is offered to family and friends too, along with counselling, nutrition advice and group support.Not content with providing an amazing array of therapies, advice and outreach days, The Haven was determined to bring medical credibility to the work they do - and, in order to fulfil this, various research projects were undertaken. In April of this year, The Haven's Clinical and Research Director, Dr. Caroline Hoffman, completed her randomised controlled study investigating the impact of Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (a programme offered at The Haven) on women with breast cancer. The results were published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology and showed a statistically significant improvement in physical and emotional well-being. Other reports were also published showing the beneficial effects of the Haven Programme when integrated with standard medical treatment and, ten years on, The Haven Research and Service Evaluation report is available to download from The Haven's website.Despite having a Clinical and Scientific Advisory Board comprising 17 consultants, breast surgeons, oncologists, nurses and other specialists, not enough hospitals, GPs and cancer centres know about The Haven. As I have written before, patients are being diagnosed and then left to their own devices, with no suggestions of where to go for help, guidance and support. The Haven is running open days for health professionals, so they can learn about the ethos and work of the centres but, also, The Haven is looking for health care ambassadors - people who know how hospitals work. Volunteers will be trained to talk to hospital or surgery staff, distribute information and generally spread the word, so that more people with breast cancer can access its tailor-made complementary therapy programmes. If you would like to volunteer, please call The Haven on 020 7384 0099.I resisted the temptation, during the Carol Service, to stand up and add the words "Men get breast cancer too, you know" but - for the sake of my email inbox, not to mention the men who are diagnosed - I say it here.Christmas is a time when I reflect on all my friends whose lives have been taken far too early by various types of this hideous disease. Much as I love carols, I find that tears now spring to my eyes, my singing voice no longer soars as it once did (do I blame Tamoxifen for that?) and too many names flood through my mind. The Haven's Carol Service was very special and emotional for those of us who have experienced breast cancer but uplifting, too, because we know The Haven is a positive, peaceful place where Visitors can find support from people who never question the tears but help you work through them. It is a charity which takes its Visitors to its heart - and never forgets its reason for existence.Merry Christmas.