I have written before about the long  journeys - sometimes a round trip of up to 160 miles - which some cancer patients have to make, to receive chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Indeed, some women are taking the unenviable and shocking decision to have a radical mastectomy rather than travel long distances on a daily basis to the nearest hospital for their treatment.Last Friday my daughter rang to tell me to watch the One Show on BBC1, which would include a film about a remarkable man called Brian Burnie and the cancer support charity he has just launched. Brian - whose wife, Shirley, had breast cancer six years ago - has taken generosity to new heights. He has sold - lock, stock and barrel - his beautiful home, Doxford Hall (complete with luxury hotel and spa), and its ten acres of grounds in Alnwick, Northumberland, is auctioning off many of his treasured personal items and will be ploughing the proceeds into "Daft As A Brush" - www.daftasabrush.org.uk.During the time of his wife's breast cancer treatment, Brian was shocked to see other patients, after undergoing their chemotherapy or radiotherapy, having to struggle home on public transport. Clearly the image must have stayed with him and eaten away at him because his aim with "Daft as a Brush" is to provide people with a "free, comfortable and safe" means of travel to and from the hospital.  A bespoke seven-seater vehicle will pick up patients, companions will travel with them to the hospital and stay with the patients during the treatment, then accompany them home and, as Brian said, "even give them a cup of tea."Brian is a self-made man - beginning his career as a grocery delivery boy at 15 - and has known only financial success.  However, he says this cancer charity project is his biggest gamble - and, of course, he has taken a massive risk by selling virtually everything he owns and moving to a very much smaller house - but he seems a determined man, so I feel sure it will work.  In February 2011 the first vehicle will begin a pilot scheme in Tynedale, Northumberland.  Eventually Brian hopes that Daft As A Brush will run a fleet of 25 vehicles and transport 50,000 patients each year, covering Northumberland, Newcastle and North Tyneside.In order to make the scheme work, Brian has asked the local primary schools to adopt a vehicle each and involve the children in the project. Most importantly, Daft As A Brush needs volunteers as chauffeurs and companions -  these people must be "passionate about helping and caring for cancer patients".  Also needed are reception and administration staff at the drop-in centre, which has been established at the charity's base in Newcastle city centre; call centre volunteers, to communicate between the patients and the vehicles and, of course, fund-raisers - it will cost £100,000 per year to operate the charity.  If you are interested in becoming involved please ring 0191 232 8999 or email it on info@daftasabrush.org.ukWhy the unusual name for the charity?  Brian says that it was named to "bring a smile to the faces of the volunteers". I am sure it will bring a smile to the faces of the patients too. His wife, Shirley - who is not quite so convinced about a smaller house - says the name is well suited to her husband!Are there any other altruistic people out there who might be inspired to follow in Brian's footsteps? There must be millions of patients all over the UK who would really appreciate this sort of help. Do you know of any similar services already operating in the UK?  If so, please email me on judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk.Part Two of the film will be shown on The One Show (BBC1 7pm) tonight.