The late entertainer, Roy Castle, developed lung cancer - yet he had never smoked.I seem to remember reading, at the time of his death, that his doctors had pointed to the hours he had worked in smoke-filled clubs as the cause of his illness. He was a great supporter of the Lung Cancer Fund and, when he died, the Fund changed its name to The Roy Castle Lung Cancer Foundation, in recognition of the millions of pounds he had raised for them. The charity celebrates its 20th birthday this year.Professor Ray Donelly - who founded the original Lung Cancer Fund - described it as the "cinderella cancer". This seems still to be the case. The British Lung Foundation (which offers a nationwide support network called "Breathe Easy") states that "a mere 3 per cent of all money spent on cancer research in the UK is spent on lung cancer". Those working for the various charities, dedicated to the elimination of this form of cancer, are well aware that the association between lung cancer and smoking is very strong in people's minds. Consequently, the sympathy given to patients with other forms of cancer far outweighs that offered to lung cancer sufferers and, presumably, means that raising funding for research, prevention and support for patients is a struggle.There are several stark statistics.1. Lung Cancer kills more people worldwide than any other cancer. This high mortality rate is due to late diagnosis in too many cases.2. Over 39,000 people are diagnosed with the disease in the UK each year, making it the second most common cancer. However, 10 per cent of this number have never smoked.3. Each year in the UK 33,500 people die from lung cancer - making it the UK's biggest killer disease.4. Data from the Public Health Observatories states that more people in the north of England die from lung cancer than in the south of the country. Are there more smokers in the north?5. The cases of lung cancer in men in the UK have dropped but, as more women are taking up the habit, the number of women developing the disease has risen.  Is the rise only in female smokers? If so - why are more women smoking? I see so many of them huddled outside offices and shops, in all weathers, having their "cigarette break". What is driving so many more young women to smoke? Why is the message not getting through to the young, pregnant women?The most common form of lung cancer among women and non-smokers is adenocarcinoma. This tends to hit people who were former, light smokers - i.e. who only smoked a couple a day. Why does it also develop in non-smokers?  Is it the "passive smoking" syndrome of which Roy Castle was diagnosed?As in all cancers, early detection is vital but all to often does not happen because people are unaware of the symptoms. Various celebrities - all of whom have been chosen because they have experienced close family members developing and dying from the disease - have lent their names to spread the message - or, perhaps, two messages because the help offered to those who would like to stop smoking is an important part of their campaigns.The Macmillan Cancer Support  campaign, "Love your Lungs" is led by Katherine Jenkins. For The Roy Castle Lung Cancer Foundation, Ricky Gervais and Sir Alex Ferguson - along with footballers and rowers - have been pictured with enlarged X-rays of clear lungs. The aim is to raise awareness of this form of cancer and persuade people to, literally, take care of their lungs.  There are a myriad of other lung diseases too - not just cancer. It is suggested that you visit the GP if you have any of the following symptoms:A cough that doesn't go away after two or three weeks
Worsening or change to long standing cough
Repeated chest infections
Coughing up blood
Unexplained persistent breathlessness
Unexplained persistent tiredness
Unexplained persistent weight loss
Persistent chest and/or shoulder painAn important caveat - these symptoms can be caused by illnesses other than cancer but a visit to your GP is essential. If that is not possible but you are worried, please contact one of the charities mentioned in this blog post.  The telephone helplines are:  Roy Castle Lung Cancer Foundation - 0151 2547200  British Lung Foundation - 08458 505020 Macmillan Cancer Support - 0808 808 0000.Their trained staff are there to help, advise and support you and will never be judgemental.