The results of the European Cancer and Nutrition Study - which followed 360,000 men and women from eight European countries - state that 13,000 cases of cancer each year in the UK are a direct result of the consumption of alcohol. The cancers involved - of the mouth, throat, pharynx, larynx, oesophagus, breast, bowel and liver - show a male/female ratio of 9,000 male cases to 4,000 female cases.The story hit the headlines. However, according to Cancer Research UK's figures published in July 2010, the total number of cancer cases in the UK is 298,000 - which covers over 200 different types of the disease. This means that 285,000 cancers are not caused by alcohol. I wonder how many of these 285,000 cases are alcohol-blamed cancers which have developed in non-drinkers?Over the past few years there have been a number of research projects which have thrown up the possibility that a glass of red wine could prevent heart disease and strokes - and may help, also, to ward off Alzheimer's and dementia. There was even one report which suggested the occasional glass of red wine could help prevent breast cancer. However, the traditional information on the latter is that alcohol increases breast tissue density and boosts oestrogen levels, raising the possibility of both breast and uterine cancer.A study published in the Lancet in 2002 claimed that moderate alcohol consumption (1-3 units per day) could help prevent heart disease and strokes. After a 6 year study of 5,000 people aged 55+, who were moderate drinkers, it was found that - among women and non-smokers - there was a 42 per cent lower risk of developing dementia or Alzheimers than in non-drinkers.An American research programme had similar results, suggesting that moderate drinking increases the blood flow - thus keeping the brain sharp; raises HDL (good cholesterol) and lowers LDL (bad cholesterol) - therefore helping to protect the arteries from atherosclerosis; decreases blood pressure and might cut the risk of type 2 diabetes by improving the body's sensitivity to insulin.However, The World Cancer Research Fund's website states: "For cancer prevention we recommend not to drink alcohol at all. But we recognise that modest amounts of alcohol may have a protective effect on heart disease. But the benefits of small amounts of alcohol only outweigh the risk in those particularly at risk of heart disease, such as men over 40 or post-menopausal women." It could have been worded better- but we get the message.This same line comes from Cancer Research UK - who adds that there is an increase in cancers of the mouth and throat due to smoking combined with alcohol. Despite the European study claiming that "giving up alcohol will not help", www.drinkaware.co.uk's website tells us that if you stop drinking alcohol, "the risk of mouth and oesophageal cancers drops dramatically". The British Heart Foundation hints at the possibility that red wine might protect against coronary heart disease - but is more concerned about the adverse effects which heavy drinking has on the heart.Where do all these conflicting research results leave us? The anti-smoking lobby is in total ascendancy so is alcohol the next cancer culprit? As the report says in its conclusions: "These data support current political efforts to reduce or abstain from alcohol consumption to reduce the incidence of cancer."Was that its remit?Will we soon have pubs with no beer?Email me at judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk