Reading the quote this week from Andrea Spyropoulos - President of the Royal College of Nursing - who said that "certain nurses just don't deliver good care and are neglecting their patients" - reminded me that I am still waiting for an explanation from Scarborough Hospital about the appalling treatment (or lack of treatment) given to my Mother-in-Law last December.On 6th January my formal complaint was logged with Scarborough Hospital's Senior Complaints Manager - her title alone tells its own story; how many are employed in the Complaints Department of this hospital? I was told that the investigation would take six weeks - which seemed a mighty long time to me but I accepted the situation. On 23rd February I received a letter from the same Senior Complaints Manager stating that "it is taking longer than anticipated to carry out the investigation and the Trust is therefore not able to respond to you within the original timescale."Three months have passed since my original complaint and I have not heard another word from the Senior Complaints Manager nor from anyone else at Scarborough Hospital. What does this mean? Do they think that, by not responding, I will forget all about it? If they do, they would be very much mistaken. Or is it that the Complaints Department is overwhelmed by similar cases?Andrea Spyropoulos appealed for nurses to "stand up and expose those individuals who should not be in the profession" and the Health Service Ombudsman - Ann Abraham - has been quoted as saying that "the NHS fails to treat the elderly with dignity and respect". The nursing staff in the "assessment" ward at Scarborough Hospital on the day in question neither delivered good care nor treated the elderly in the ward with dignity and respect. Sadly, I have received many emails from people whose elderly relatives have experienced the same - or worse - neglect at Scarborough and other hospitals. Is it any wonder that, as Andrea Spyropoulos said "nurses are no longer held in high regard or treated with respect"? Respect has to be earned.The blog post I wrote, describing the day I accompanied my Mother-in-law to Scarborough Hospital -  provoked many a comment from nurses and student nurses in defence of their colleagues - criticising me for my temerity in daring to raise the issue of bad nursing practice. Why? Do they want us to turn a blind eye? Should we sweep the evidence under the hospital beds on the already filthy floors? Bad practice can be found in any walk of life but in healthcare there are patients' rights and dignity to be considered - not to mention their lives - and it is up to those nurses, who aspire to the old ethos of nursing, to do what Andrea Spyropoulos urges and expose their neglectful colleagues.I also wonder this: would we need the many warning notices about not abusing NHS staff if nursing training included social skills? Or should it be pointed out that if a person needs to be trained in courtesy, care and communication, perhaps he or she should consider another career?Does the NHS have no pride in itself, its reputation or its nurses - or is it that its overly-inflated management just does not care about the behaviour of some of its staff and the neglect of its patients?Email me on:  judith.potts@telegraph.co.uk