Breakthrough Breast Cancer's research laboratories in London are situated conveniently beside the Brompton and Royal Marsden hospitals. I say "conveniently" because - as I discovered on my recent tour of the complex - this geographical proximity to patients is vital for the "bench to bedside" method used by the charity's researchers. Breakthrough was founded in 1991 by television writer Bill Freedman, whose actress wife died from breast cancer. When the Research Centre was opened in 1999 it was named after her - The Breakthrough Toby Robins Breast Cancer Research Centre.Working towards personalised cancer care - not "one solution fits all" - the researchers ensure that, being able to use the hospital doctors' immediate assessment and analysis of the impact of a new drug, treatments can be refined quickly and side effects minimised. This means that patients benefit from the medication as speedily and safely as possible. The emphasis on "bench to bedside" has resulted in 10 clinical trials in the last 10 years - four of which were directly funded by Breakthrough Breast Cancer.In that time, Breakthrough has invested £53 million in research and currently funds 142 scientists and supports 250. The charity's researchers provide 25 per cent of all the breast cancer research in Britain and, among their recent major discoveries, are PARP inhibitors, which target only the cancer cells, leaving healthy cells unaffected. From this research success, Professor Alan Ashworth has developed a totally new approach to treating the disease .My tour began with the Hamilton Robot. Transferring small amounts of liquid into tiny tubes for testing purposes used to be the - understandably - slow job of post-graduates. Now it is done on a grand scale by the Hamilton Robot, which - at a cost of £15,000 to £20,000 - enables the scientists to carry out multi-testing. More robots would be gratefully received because using them will speed up the discovery of new drugs.The Breakthrough Generations Study is well under way. Over the next 40 years it will  involve 10,000 women, aged 16-98, and it is hoped that the results will enable scientists to pinpoint and prove the exact causes of breast cancer. The questionnaires use the shelf space of 48 double decker buses lined up bumper to bumper and, at the moment, the team has a collection of 3 million blood samples. Genetic, environmental, behavioural and hormonal factors are being studied, with blood tests taken from the women at regular intervals.I asked Sarah Chilcott-Burns: "Is male breast cancer included in the research?" Happily, she was able to answer that there is, running alongside the women's study, a five-year project with similar objectives involving 2,000 men - half of whom have had breast cancer and half not.One of the hallmarks of every cancer is something called apostosis. This is a natural self-defence mechanism which eliminates damaged cells in the body.  However, cancer cells become resistant to the process and grow uncontrollably.  Mariam Orme, in Professor Pascal Meier's laboratory, explained that the fruit fly has much in common with humans - 60% of its genes are the same as ours - and this insect plays a large part in the work to understand apoptosis. The team - which includes the fruit flies - is researching ways to force cancer cells to turn the process back on themselves and, thus, kill the cancer.In the Tumour Dormancy and Relapse Laboratory we met Don White. The research in this laboratory is into why chemotherapy and radiotherapy-resistant breast cancer cells can survive hidden in the body for many years - before re-appearing in other areas of the body like the bones, liver, brain or lung. Where do they hide? The challenge for the researchers is that secondary breast cancer is often resistant to drugs but, by understanding the nature of these treatment resistant cancer cells, it will be possible to produce more effective treatments which will kill all the cancer cells at the initial site.Every laboratory needs a constant supply of cells for research or to transport globally between cancer centres.  As I looked at the containers of liquid nitrogen (kept at -196c) in which thousands of these cells are stored, I mused on the many people who believe that the drug companies have the cure for cancer but, for financial reasons, keep it  locked away. These theorists are mistaken if they think there is one solitary cure for cancer - it is far more complicated than that.Breast cancer is not a single disease but a complex group of, at least, 17 different types. It will take a myriad of different cures for this one form of cancer alone - and, judging by the people I met at The Toby Robins Research Centre, who work in their particular area with such determination and enthusiasm, I doubt very much that they would ever be persuaded to hide their successes.Thank you to everyone I met who explained patiently to me - a non-scientist - what their work involved. I left feeling enormously impressed by and grateful for the dedication of the scientists who work for Breakthrough Breast Cancer.