This is the time of year when charities aim to persuade us to walk, run, climb, cycle, skydive or, in some other particularly outrageous or challenging way, participate in an event to raise money for their respective causes. Many of these events require a promise, on registration, to donate a significant amount of money - not easy to do in the current financial climate - but one which has popped into my in-box only requires you to collect a minimum of £25 in donations or pay £5 on the day.The Wallace and Gromit Children's Foundation has taken the unusual - but clever - step of joining forces with The Kennel Club Charitible Trust and arranging three "Grand Days Out".  These involve you and your dog walking 1.5 kms, 3 kms or 5 kms and being sponsored to do so.  There will be a Wallace and Gromit award for every dog taking part - plus treats for the family, games and activities for dogs and humans.The events run from 11am to 3 pm and the first is this Sunday in The Royal Victoria Park in Bath. The next is on April 3 in Hadleigh Country Park in Essex and the last is in London's Battersea Park on April 10.The Wallace and Gromit Children's Foundation is not a charity with which I am familiar but, after a little research, I have discovered the much-needed work it does to improve the quality of life for sick and terminally ill children in hospitals and hospices across the UK. When a child is confined to hospital it can be very difficult to have any kind of normal life - and, for a child, play is an integral part of normality. The Foundation funds projects that engage, distract and entertain sick children, aiding their recovery and making their stay in hospital or hospice less scary.  The projects include art, music, play and sensory therapy as well as providing state of the art equipment and child-friendly environments.Families are supported too, with the Foundation offering free accommodation, comforts and facilities - and respite care for those looking after sick children. Last year one of the donations given by the Foundation was £10,500 to the Bristol Royal Children's Hospital towards the refurbishment of the accident and emergency department and this year there will be many more.Information about the charity can be found on www.wallaceandgromitfoundation.org where you will also find a letter signed by Nick Park, Trustee of the Foundation - and, of course, creator of Wallace and Gromit. There are details of the 18th year of "Wrong Trousers Day" - to be held on June 24 - when you are encouraged to "don your whackiest trousers" and asked for a mere £1 donation for the "right to look wrong".If you and your dog would like to take part in one of the Grand Days Out, please register on www.agranddayout.org.uk - or just turn up!The Kennel Club's charitable trust donates to many a good canine cause - Battersea Dogs Home and the Greyhound Rescue in the West of England, to name but two.