I am a great supporter of The Breast Cancer Haven - or should it be the plural, "Havens" because there are three of these uplifting and therapeutic places in London, Leeds and Hereford - so I was thrilled to be invited to a very special tea party at the London Haven last week.It was held to celebrate the 5,000th visitor to have walked through the door of the converted Methodist church in London's Fulham since its opening in 2000. Breast Cancer sufferers are known as "Visitors" at The Havens, not "patients". The normally quiet and peaceful building was full of  happy noise. Guests, who included staff, therapists, volunteers and - most importantly - past and present Visitors, were chatting volubly, drinking tea and eating the most delicious cakes. Stories of the support and care Visitors found at The Haven abounded and it was obvious that - even after many post-cancer treatment years - the sanctuary remains a very large part of everyone's lives. Visitors were re-acquainted with therapists and fellow Visitors with whom they had attended the group therapy sessions. For the new CEO - Pamela Healy - it was an occasion which clearly demonstrated the very special nature of the Havens.The combination of the bad news that the rate of breast cancer diagnoses has risen from 1 in 9 to 1 in 8 people and the good news of the increased five year survival rates - from 52 per cent to 80 per cent - means that, although more women and men are developing the disease, they are living longer. The Haven is acutely aware that many of these people will need its help and support. It is possible to "hit the brick wall" at any time - sometimes years after the original treatment - and The Haven's nurses and therapists understand and welcome you - or welcome you back - at any time for the rest of  your life.Once the diagnosis has been made, you can pay a visit to the Haven before, during or after treatment.  The charity (which receives no government money) offers a consultation with a breast cancer nurse, followed by a free package of therapies - everything from acupuncture and cranio-sacral therapy to shiatsu and counselling. The website carries a list of current therapies, group sessions and new courses. There is nothing "whacky" here! There is support for family and friends too.The Haven was founded by Sara Davenport, who was horrified to discover that - when her Nanny developed breast cancer - the hospital dealt only with her physical state. There was no one to address how the diagnosis was affecting her emotionally or psychologically. Determined that women and men should have the opportunity of an holistic approach to their cancer - but working very much alongside the cancer doctors and oncologists - the Haven's list of therapies has grown and, if you cannot travel to a Haven, there is a CD and DVD "Haven at Home" available free, which carries information from nurses, therapists and Visitors' experiences.The Haven's Clinical and Advisory Board is packed with senior oncologists and consultants. One of them, Mr. Richard Linforth from St Luke's Hospital, Bradford, encapsulates the work of the Havens.  He said: "The Haven picks up where the NHS lets go to restore the whole being of the women (and men) coming to terms with their new diagnosis of breast cancer and the lifelong effects of its treatment." I sincerely hope that the funding for much-needed new Havens will roll in and enable more to be opened over the next couple of years. If you would like to donate or become a Visitor please visit www.thehaven.org.uk.