This has been a difficult week for me. My 97-year-old mother finally lost her fight - and I mean "fight" - against, firstly, Charles Bonnet syndrome and then eighteen months of vascular dementia. Her funeral was last Wednesday and somehow we all held ourselves together to play our different parts in the service.Charles Bonnet syndrome is a little-known condition which strikes some people when they lose 60 per cent of their eyesight. The brain fills in the blanks with images - these can be from literature, film or real memories.  Sometimes the hallucinations are faceless people, sometimes elf-like creatures or, very alarmingly, whole scenes or repeated patterns on the floor or walls. Needless to say, this is a terrifying condition - particularly, as in my mother's case, when the eye consultant neglected to tell her this might happen. By the time she confided in me, she had been tolerating these frightening visual disturbances for some time. Fortuitously, the day after our conversation, I happened to read an article about the condition and was able to reassure her - but not cure it. There is no medication which can be given to a patient of 93 (as she was then) and the suggested "jumping up and running round the room to kick your brain into another gear" is also not possible at that age.Then vascular dementia hit and this lively, independent and proud Edwardian lady became - overnight - a tormented soul. It has been a heart-breaking eighteen months for us all.  I had absolutely no idea about this particular type of dementia and can hardly believe that it was possible for someone to survive the downward spiral for so long. My mother had a strong spirit which carried her through, despite her immense distress, constant terror and loss of dignity. Now she is at peace.I have written critically about hospital nurses, but the Nursing Home nurses who gave my mother 24 hour care were exemplary and ably backed by gentle, kind and patient carers. Barchester Healthcare make sure all their staff have ongoing training in the 100+ types of dementia and their support, not just for the patient but also for the family, is second-to-none. I don't suppose the carers earn anywhere near the salary of an NHS hospital nurse but their attitude is altogether different.Contrast this with a letter I received yesterday. You may remember that I have made a formal complaint to Scarborough Hospital about the treatment they meted out to my mother-in-law and was promised an investigation and the result within six weeks. The letter from the Senior Complaints Manager states: "I regret very much that it is taking longer than anticipated to carry out the investigation and the Trust is therefore not able to respond to you within the original timescale". I can only assume that Scarborough Hospital has had so many complaints that their complaints team has been set an impossible task.I have campaigned on behalf of many of the Breast Cancer charities, who do very well for donations compared with either the Macular Disease Society or Alzheimer's Society. It is easy to persuade people to give to cancer charities but, for some reason, these two charities struggle for funds. Research into the Charles Bonnet syndrome is vital - consultants need to be educated to warn their patients that this condition might occur - and, as more and more nursing beds are taken by dementia patients, the Alzheimer's researchers are crying out for donations.If you might be interested in supporting these charities, please visit www.maculardisease.org and www.alzheimer's.org.uk.