In writing these blog posts, I have been made aware - through their emails to me - of how men feel especially neglected when it comes to breast cancer issues. Although there are far fewer cases of breast cancer in men - gentlemen, please note that I have stopped referring to the disease as "male breast cancer" - the numbers are growing, but too many organisations forget this fact.This week I have struck a blow for men.Breast Health UK was founded, two years ago, by Professor Gordon Wishart of the Cambridge Breast Unit at Addenbrookes Hospital.  It is a private organisation with 21 centres in the UK. Professor Wishart's idea was "to offer women faster access to a greater range of breast screening and diagnostic treatments than are currently available on the NHS".When I looked at Breast Health UK's website, I noticed immediately that it was directed entirely at women - no mention of men. I rang and asked whether or not any men had consulted any of the clinics. The answer was "we have never had an enquiry from a man -  until two weeks ago". However, I must have struck a chord with the organisation because, within one day of my telephone call, I was contacted and told that, on the suggestion of the Managing Director, the website will be changed to carry a page specifically for breast cancer in men. A small success but I am so pleased. Thank you Breast Health UK.To coincide with Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Breast Health UK has launched a free, regular breast check reminder service. To sign up and receive the reminders (during the middle of the menstrual cycle) - and a link to a short video showing a breast nurse demonstrating the self examination procedure - go to www.breasthealthuk.com.For a fee of £75, Breast Health UK is also offering an Online Risk Assessment Service. After completing the questionnaire, the results - using the tried-and-tested Tyrer-Cusick model - will be explained by telephone, within one week. A genetic counsellor from the organisation will ring to explain the level of risk and advise the next step.Breast Health UK's clinics offer breast examinations by a clinically trained breast nurse, breast MRI scans, ultrasound, genetic testing and a very new diagnostic test called a Digital Infrared B Scan which - when used alongside a regular mammogram - gives a more sensitive reading, particularly for those women under the age of 50, "where delays in diagnosis are common". The website states that "breast cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed in women under 35".The gentleman who contacted Breast Health UK would rather not reveal his identity, so we will call him James. He identified a lump just below his nipple and tells me that "I have a busy working life and so wanted to get it sorted out as soon as possible. I didn't want to have to wait for appointments and I didn't want it to play on my mind. For me privacy and confidentiality were really important and I was dealt with in a very professional, speedy and sensitive way."Fortunately for James the lump proved to be benign by the consultant arranged a six week follow-up, just in case.