ASK JUDITHA good deal has been written about the "medical abandonment" of cancer patients once their treatment is finished. During the weeks of chemotherapy or radiotherapy, there is always a doctor, nurse or technician on hand to answer any questions and give emotional and practical support. However, when the patient leaves hospital for the last time, it does not mean there will be no more fears to be overcome. There can be an unpleasant sense of being "out in the moonlight". Recently, I received the following email:-Dear Judith,
I am 44 year old and was diagnosed with breast cancer last year. I have had 6 months of chemo and a mastectomy( approximately two weeks ago). In the next few weeks I will be starting radiotherapy. I am in the medical profession, which is both helpful and unhelpful!
I am very conscious of the fact that there is some support during treatment. I also know that quite a few cancer patients get low after treatment as the reality hits and the supervision lessens. I am worried about that phase. Where did you get psychological support? What did you find useful?
MonicaDear Monica,
Like many cancer patients, I was very positive during surgery and treatment but "hit the brick all" when it was all over and I was "home alone". My consultant suggested I pay a visit to The Breast Cancer Haven - now just known as The Haven (www.thehaven.org.uk).  If you are in London, the nearest Haven for you is Fulham.  There are two others - in Leeds and Hereford - but, for those who cannot reach the Haven buildings, there is a new programme called "Haven at Home", which is an on-line package providing information and help from the specialist breast cancer nurses and some of the complementary therapists. The ethos of The Haven is that "no one should have to face breast cancer alone" and everyone - from the receptionist through the nurses and therapists to the ladies who cook healthy lunches - understands completely how you feel. Some people do well in groups, others need one-to-one attention - all is on offer. The atmosphere is warm, comforting and safe and the treatments cover numerous complementary therapies, nutrition advice, exercise classes of all kinds, counselling and group therapy sessions - the first 9 are free of charge. This is a true holistic experience and, under the Haven's auspices, I re-gained my confidence and re-joined the world. Judith