Today is World Cancer Day. The statistics published by Macmillan Cancer Care and The World Health Organisation make extremely grim reading. Between the years of 2005 and 2015, it is estimated that 84 million people, worldwide, will die or have died of cancer. In the UK alone, there are 2,000,000 people living with a cancer diagnosis and by 2030 the number will have doubled to 4,000,000.Macmillan Cancer Care devotes its time, energy and income to improving the lives of many of these cancer patients. This year Macmillan celebrates its centenary and, to mark the occasion, the charity has launched "The Biggest Thank You" on its website. This gives anyone, who has experienced cancer, a chance to say a public "thank you" to whoever gave them special help or support through their diagnosis and treatment. The aim is to create a huge mosaic of photographs and messages. If you would like to take part, visit www.macmillan.org.uk and post your thoughts.The hairdressing company, Toni and Guy, have joined with Macmillan to offer "Strength in Style". Selected hairdressers, in 70 salons, have been trained to give hair care and advice for people with cancer - pre, during and post treatment and surgery. Wigs, either your own or those bought from the Toni and Guy salon, can be coloured, styled and cut by the hairdressers. Macmillan nurses have trained Tony and Guy's staff to deal with the emotional and practical issues surrounding the side effects of cancer treatment. For more information and to see if there is a partaking salon near you, visit www.macmillan.org.uk/strengthinstyle or ring 0808 808 00 00.Macmillan not only offers trained nurses, who help patients with pain control and give emotional support - 363,000 people were helped last year - but campaigns for fairer treatment for those with cancer. Fuel poverty experienced by cancer patients is highlighted in a recent email based campaign. Whilst undergoing treatment, cancer patients spend more time at home and feel the cold more acutely and Macmillan is asking the government to give such people a rebate of £130 towards their fuel bills.A recent survey revealed the alarming fact that 53 per cent of employers do not know that cancer is covered under the Equality Act 2010. Sick pay entitlement, flexible working hours and a simple environmental change would enable the 700,000 cancer patients, who want to continue to work, to do just that. Macmillan's "Working through Cancer" campaign addresses this problem.Macmillan is still battling for cancer patients not to have to pay hospital car parking charges. Perhaps you feel strongly about one - or all - of these issues? If so, you can join any of the email campaigns from the Macmillan website.