Several topics have sprung to mind this week.  First of all, I am waiting for Scarborough Hospital's Patient Liaison lady to write and confirm that my official complaint, about the hospital's shabby treatment of my mother-in-law, is being taken seriously. Nothing has appeared so far! As you may have read below last week's blog post, there are far too many people in similar - or worse -situations. The elderly, particularly those with dementia, are some of the most vulnerable people in our society and it is shocking to witness them being treated in such an uncaring manner.It strikes me that, if John Lewis is sending its representatives to train our police force to be polite, perhaps its team could be called in to use its skills on the NHS. I wonder whether or not part of the problem is that people who work for the NHS are forgetting just who pays their salaries? Are they under the impression that the service they offer us is totally free and, therefore, is a charity, to whom we should be grateful? Is this why the nurse at Scarborough Hospital felt there was no need to communicate politely with us or treat my mother-in-law with the respect she deserves? Should we devise a system - perhaps in the form of a voucher - where money changes hands? Perhaps, then, the NHS would provide service levels akin to those offered in private healthcare. Why is it, in the NHS, we are bombarded with warning posters about "abuse of the staff" - even in ambulances - whereas in private hospitals the notice board carries messages asking how the hospital can make your experience better? It is the same process but totally different experiences. I suspect the reason for the blizzard of warning notices, is that the NHS recognises that it cannot - or will not - operate to private sector service levels. To me, there is something deeply rooted in the NHS psyche which has eliminated its original mission.Michael Douglas has come through his treatment and feels he has "beaten" cancer.  Certainly the latest pictures of him show his previously gaunt features have disappeared, he is back to looking like his old self and is about to begin filming "Liberace". This is very good news. He is a charming man and a talented actor. I remember meeting him and his wife some years ago at a British Embassy party in Washington. When the news of his cancer first broke, his wife, Catherine Zeta-Jones, was angry that the doctors did not listen readily to the couple and the cancer was not diagnosed as quickly as it might have been. Now, of course, they are delighted but I wonder how his "treatment" in the USA - in both senses of the word - compares to ours in the UK? Perhaps the explanation is that, in the USA, the health service is driven by patients paying directly for their treatment - either by insurance or self-funding. The point is, there is a visible transaction.The latest report which shows that patients are being forced to wait more than six weeks for cancer tests hardly tallies with the recent government pledge to allow GPs to refer patients for cancer tests, without seeing a specialist first. Does this mean the NHS is short of equipment and technicians - after all, we are desperately short of physiotherapists, district nurses, midwives and health-visitors , so presumably every part of the NHS (apart from nurses - at Scarborough Hospital) needs to recruit? Surely early diagnosis would save the NHS a good deal of money in the long run? Or is that too obvious a solution?