In the grounds of the Charing Cross Hospital in London is an interesting modern building in an eye-catching shade of orange. This is the first Maggie's Centre in England and, since its opening in 2008, has provided a free drop-in centre for cancer patients and their carers.Many of us will recognise the scene with a newly-diagnosed cancer patient sitting in the bleak corridor of a hospital, hardly able to comprehend what has happened and in no fit state to make the journey home and face the family. Consultants and nurses have only a limited amount of time and, anyway, the shocked patient can only digest half the amount of information offered. At the Charing Cross Hospital, patients are steered towards Maggie's. Here, over a cup of tea, the medically trained staff talk the patient through the diagnosis, the treatment which lies ahead and discuss the services offered in the centre.On the day I visited, I saw pyjama-clad patients chatting to friends; patients taking advice from the benefits expert - cancer can change a person's finances dramatically and it often requires an expert to steer through the convoluted financial benefit support system; a yoga class about to start - there are other classes on nutrition, exercise and relaxation; staff taking quietly to patients and their families - distributing tea, comfort and advice.The centre prides itself on offering "high-quality, evidence based psychological, emotional and informational support". For hospital in-patients, it is a warm, friendly and calm environment - complete with a large kitchen table around which visitors are encouraged to sit, swap stories and empty the biscuit jar - a much more pleasant environment that a cold and clinical hospital ward. For patients' families, it is a support centre with its own cancer text-book library and internet access. For other patients there is group or individual support from clinical or chartered counselling psychologists - on a drop-in or appointment basis. Interestingly, over 35 per cent of visitors are men.The centre has been beautifully and cleverly designed, with areas which can be opened for classes, such as Tai Chi, or be closed off for smaller counselling sessions. The centre ensures that there is always a member of staff on hand to receive a new patient or visitor and the homely atmosphere in the building is one of quiet friendliness, empathy and confidence."Maggie" was Maggie Keswick Jencks, a Scottish architect, who - having developed breast cancer - found herself in need of support and information but found none. She called on her architectural friends and the first cancer caring centre was planned in Edinburgh. Sadly, she died a month before the centre opened but it was named "Maggie's Centre" after her. Since then five others have been developed in Scotland and, in October of this year, the second English centre - in Cheltenham - will open its doors.There are others in the pipeline for England, Scotland and Wales. All are in the grounds of a hospital, all are designed individually by architects who give their time free - some are stand-alone and some are conversions - but all offer a place of comfort and reassurance, working independently of the NHS but forging close links with the adjacent hospital.Their founder, Maggie Keswick Jencks, said: "At the time I could not sit, or lie, or stand, listen or speak coherently because my shattered mind vibrated so violently throughout my body." The charity's aim is to work together to help people overcome the isolation and despair caused by a cancer diagnosis.If you feel able to undertake a 20 mile walk, Maggie's is looking for 4,000 to join a fund-raising night hike in London - walking and visiting some of the beautiful, unusual and iconic buildings in the city. There are places still available and the hike takes place on Friday September 17. Details can be found on www.maggiescentres.org/nighthike