The recent successful trial of a drug called Afinitor or Everolimus, when combined with the chemotherapy drug Exemestane, has shown good results for post-menopausal women, with "oestrogen-receptor positive advanced breast cancer".Jane Maher, the Chief Medical Officer of Macmillan Cancer Support, said: "This trial shows a small but significant step in fighting advanced breast cancer. There are thousands of women with incurable breast cancer in the UK. Many of these women are able to live good quality lives with the right treatment and support, despite the prognosis. Trials like this are really promising."For most people who develop breast cancer there will be no recurrence but, for some, the breast cancer cells from the primary site spread to other parts of the body - this should not be confused with local or regional recurrence - most often the lungs, bones and liver. When this happens the cancer becomes incurableConsidering there are - to quote Jane Maher - "thousands of women with incurable breast cancer in the UK", it is extraordinary that there is no data on the exact numbers.Breast Cancer Care has previously campaigned for comprehensive data to be collected and won the campaign. The Department of Health is now committed to pilot the collection of data and should have the figures for England by April 2012. Then the picture will be clearer and perhaps the NHS can join the breast cancer charities in offering the right sort of support and help for people in this situation.Breast Cancer Care has a section in their "Moving Forward" publication, which addresses the symptoms of secondary breast cancer and offers discussion forums and live chat sessions, plus a course called "Living with Secondary Breast Cancer".To coincide with Breast Cancer Awareness Month and, most particularly, Breast Cancer Care's second "Secondary Breast Cancer Awareness Day", the charity has opened a new online resource for people living with secondary breast cancer. Called "The Little Things That Make a BIG Difference, it is a collection of practical and emotional tips - to which you are encouraged to add your own. A selection has been published - under the same title - and for your free copy of this limited edition book, please log onto www.breastcancercare.org.uk/secondary.From simple acts of help like "My Mum sometimes takes my washing and brings it back all clean" to the advice "Don't compare yourself with anyone else with secondary breast cancer. We're all different, and by comparing symptoms you're likely to frighten yourself", the book is full of helpful advice and suggestions - all short and to the point and, I am sure, along with the ever growing online resource - will be of enormous help and comfort.Secondary Breast Cancer Awareness Day is on October 13 and, this year, Breast Cancer Care's campaign is to protect the role of clinical nurse specialists for people with secondary breast cancer. To make the point, the charity is holding an event at the House of Commons, hosted by Annette Brooke MP. The event is aimed at MP's, people with secondary breast cancer and healthcare professionals. If you fall into one of those groups and would be interested in attending, registration is required, as space is limited. To do this, please ring 020 7960 3574 or email emma.skingsley@breastcancercare.org.uk