Jennifer Saunders - always a very private person - has announced that she has been suffering from breast cancer and has undergone surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy but is now through it all and the future looks good for her. By breaking her silence and making this announcement Jennifer will have helped the campaign to raise awareness of the disease - and, for that, we thank her.All women, celebrities or otherwise, differ as to whether or not they wish to conduct their fight with the breast cancer in public or private. Sally Whittaker - the Coronation Street actress - was diagnosed with breast cancer at the same moment her on-screen character was also diagnosed. The horrible coincidence persuaded her to speak publicly. Martina Navratilova also decided to "go public".Women and men deal, in our own way, with this form of cancer.  None of us consider ourselves "victims" and it was a great shame that Amanda Platell, in her Daily Mail column, chose to suggest that Martina was "an example to us all because she did not consider herself a victim" - thereby suggesting that the rest of us fall into the category of victims. I do not suppose, for one moment, Martina would agree with Amanda.According to Cancer Research UK , breast cancer is now the most common form of cancer in the UK - and the numbers are growing; there has been a 5 per cent increase in the last ten years. However, there is good news -  because of early diagnosis, 8 out of 10 sufferers now survive beyond five years whereas, in the 1970s, the figure was a much lower 5 out of 10. The survival rate for women, beyond twenty years, is 2 out of 3.If there is anything about the look or the feel of your breast - male or female - please go straight to the GP. Remember, though, that the GP is not qualified to diagnose breast cancer, so, if you are worried, do not take his or her word but ask for a referral.  This applies particularly to young women, whose cancer will likely be the more aggressive type.I wish Jennifer Saunders a speedy recovery back to her usual energetic self.