With the prospect of summer holidays ahead of us, travel insurance is on our "must do" list. Frustratingly, though, for those of us who have had cancer, insuring ourselves to travel - particularly to long-haul destinations like the USA - is complex, confusing and costly.A friend of mine who has prostate cancer and secondary cancer was quoted a premium of £1,000 to travel to New York for a five-day stay. When I heard this, I checked immediately to see where I stood with my insurance policy. The man who spoke to me conducted, what he described as, a "medical screening assessment". As far as I know, he was neither a doctor nor a nurse but purely a worker in the company's call centre. Reading from a script and with no sensitivity whatsoever,  he asked me a series of incredibly intrusive questions - "which breast contained the cancer?" cannot possibly have any relevance as to whether or not the company agrees to cover me for travel. At the end of the "assessment" I was told that my "condition" would be excluded from the policy.With a planned trip to the USA coming up in the autumn, I began doing some research to try to find a reasonably priced policy. I tried "Which" magazine but, despite publishing an article about how difficult and expensive it is for cancer patients to find travel cover, they had no suggestions.I was beginning to despair when I came upon a company called Insurancewith (www.insurancewith.com tel: 0845 2307159).Fiona Macrae found she had breast cancer when her son was five months old. She had chemotherapy to shrink the tumour, a mastectomy and radiotherapy. Once she felt better, a holiday in Europe seemed like a good idea. However, despite the fact that she worked in the insurance industry, she could not find an affordable policy to cover her. She was shocked to hear the kind of questions her colleagues were asking - in fact, due to the nature of the questioning, she became convinced her condition was much worse that it actually was and had to return to the oncologist for reassurance.So, using her experience in both the insurance and medical fields, she started her own company. She insists that her call centre team ask only pertinent questions and trains them to be tactful and understanding. For those people who are anxious about discussing medical details, it is possible to screen yourself online without paying the usual astronomical premiums. All medical conditions are covered and Fiona works closely with many of the medical charities to ensure that her team understands the symptoms of more unusual conditions. People with secondary cancers can find cover too. £1 from the cost of each policy is donated to Insurewith's selected charities - one of which is Pink Ladies, a charity in Guernsey which supports breast cancer sufferers.Whether you are going to Europe or further afield - by air, train, car or ship -  if you have had cancer it is essential to make sure your travel insurance covers you for every eventuality. It is not just the obvious symptoms of cancer which need to be covered. Those of us taking tamoxifen are particularly susceptible to Deep Vein Thrombosis and I am told that, without specialist cover, an insurance company will refuse to pay for medical treatment arising from this condition because the cause is directly linked to breast cancer.Particularly in the USA, medical intervention is horrendously expensive, as it is in some parts of Europe. Please put travel insurance at the top of your "must do" list - and do it today.