Now the coalition government is up and running, it is time to ask again for answers to the two questions we put to our parliamentary candidates - and a few more besides.First of all, David Cameron promised that, if the Tories won the election, he would ensure that cancer patients would be entitled to receive the drug which their consultants thought appropriate. The post code lottery would disappear. Is this going to happen?Secondly, what is proposed for women in parts of the UK who have to make the appalling choice between having a lumpectomy and travelling up to 160 miles each day for radiotherapy or choosing the mutilation of a mastectomy?I have contacted all four Departments of Health - England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland - and am now waiting for their replies.These are just two of the issues that cancer patients in the UK want the new Secretary of State for Health to address quickly. Our survival rates for cancer are among the lowest in Europe, particularly in the older age ranges. Early diagnosis of cancer is imperative but, very often, GPs are reluctant to refer patients to specialists because - apparently - the Primary Care Trusts have reduced the number of referrals allowed from each GP. Consequently, by the time the symptoms are obvious enough for the GP to insist the patient is referred, the cancer is at a much advanced stage and requires more radical treatment - which brings with it additional cost both financially and emotionally.This week Professor Karol Sikora, one of our leading cancer specialists, has criticised the slow process of diagnosis for patients with suspected breast cancer - despite the fact that the policy under the previous Government was for cancer patients to be seen by the consultant within two weeks of their GP's referral.  That part might - I stress, might - be working but that is not the issue. Once you have seen the consultant it can be a very long time before treatment actually begins. This is the real truth of the matter.Not only can the prolonged waiting between appointments allow the cancer to spread but, for the patient, it is a time of terrible anguish and uncertainty. Trying to live your life, look after your dependents and continue with your work, while fearing what may lie ahead, is bad enough if we are talking about days but we are not - in some areas the waiting time can be four to six weeks. This is unacceptable.Friends of mine who have a house in France speak in glowing terms of the efficiency of the French health service, where a referral to a specialist, a scan, diagnosis and a treatment plan put in place, takes a mere 48 hours. Why does the process have to be so protracted in the UK? Can we not rethink the whole time-frame?Perhaps our new Under Secretary of State for Health - Anne Milton - would care to give her views.  She is an ex-nurse who worked with terminal cancer patients and, therefore, must have seen the vagaries of the system at very close quarters. We would be extremely interested to know her action plan - and hope that, with her experience, she will be working to ensure that cancer patients in the UK can have the same chances as those in other European countries. We look forward to hearing from her.While she is working on this, please could she encourage NICE (National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence) to speed up the time it takes to come to a decision. This organisation has eleven board members, four executive directors and five sub-committees and still it can take up to eighteen months to make up its mind whether or not a drug can be funded by the NHS. Some cancer patients do not have the luxury of that amount of time.If you have any persistent symptoms please do not be afraid or embarrassed but take yourself to your doctor now. Remember, the earlier the cancer is caught, the better your chance of recovery. Take it from me - my consultant told me that if I had waited another six months it would have been a very different story.