I seem to have struck a chord last week when I mentioned the word "soya". To some people this is a superfood and they will hear nothing against its cure-all and prevent-all properties. However, we need to look carefully at the evidence. Since the 1990s, the tide has turned and it is now suggested that we, in the west, should treat soya with caution.I suspect soya was first targeted by western women who were determined to find alternative remedies to HRT to alleviate the uncomfortable symptoms of the menopause. They looked to the east and discovered that oriental women did not have the same menopausal problems. Why was that? Could it be their diet and, if so, what was different about it? Soya was the answer. Then they realised that breast cancer is relatively unknown in the region. Two and two were put together and the sales of soya accelerated. However, no one looked at the bigger picture and the difference in lifestyles.Herbal medicine companies were quick to take advantage of this new fashion and began manufacturing soya capsules, to be taken once a day with our other vitamins, so we did not even have to cook with the bean. Then soya began to be combined with plants such as black cohosh, chaste tree berry and red clover to combat the hot flushes and night sweats of the menopausal years.In the absence of a regulatory body to monitor these products and advise us, we have to rely on the grapevine of friends. I went down this path because my experience was particularly bad - 16 hot flushes a day, night sweats and palpitations. I believed what I read on the packets and, for a long time, I took a day and a night capsule of a plant-based HRT alternative with soya isaflavones, which I found in Canada. I drank soya milk, ate soya yoghurts and took an extra soya capsule. Would my symptoms have been worse if I had not taken this amount of soya? I will never know.What I did not appreciate, however, was the quantity of phyto-oestrogens I was adding to my system. Did they contribute to my breast cancer? You see, like every other breast cancer sufferer, I am still on my quest to find the cause. It is impossible to prove either way, but my wise Consultant advised against continuing to take the herbal remedy. I stopped there and then and cope with the tamoxifen-generated hot flushes by breathing deeply and drinking cold water.Yes, the oriental diet contains soya and it is always said that if oriental women come to live in the west and eat our diet, their chance of developing breast cancer rises. This is questionable. If there is an increased possibility, it is much more to do with a mixture of problems. There is a growing view amongst nutritionists that we, in the west, eat far too much protein - huge chunks of meat and vast amounts of cheese - in the belief that it gives us energy and strength. In fact, according to the latest thinking, the body only needs about 15 per cent of our total calorific intake to be protein.  The oriental diet contains less protein and more steamed or raw organic vegetables. We should also consider the size of the portions on our plates, the use of the microwave, the chemically enhanced and sweetened products - not forgetting the cling film, foil and plastic which wrap so much of our food.When I began my five-year course of tamoxifen, I was advised to avoid soya. Studies have shown that, because it contains phyto-oestrogens, it can counteract the tamoxifen and possibly cause breast cancer cells to grow.  Certainly, if you have a weak digestive system you should definitely avoid soya. Also, check on the labels of shop-bought goods to make sure that soya flour - a cheaper alternative - has not been used in any manufactured bread, cakes or biscuits that you buy. There are many good alternatives to soya milk, like rice, oat or almond milk.I am sure that Professor Karol Sikora, who is conducting a 10-year study into the effect that food of all sorts has on the development of cancer, will want to include soya in his research. I hope he does because we need conclusive answers.P.S. I have yet to receive a reply from Morrisons' customer services to my second email about the ingredients of their "specialist bread" range. Please take this as a polite nudge.