Following my treatment for breast cancer, I try to eat as healthily and organically as possible. On the advice of a nutritionist - working alongside conventional healthcare professionals - I am now wary of dairy food, red meat and soya, all of which have been linked to cancer.  I apply the 80/20 rule.  That is to say, I eat good things 80 per cent of the time and allow myself treats for the other 20.  That makes the diet less draconian and it was especially good to discover that very dark chocolate contains vitamin B6 and magnesium, both of which balance the hormones.  So - a piece a day is entirely acceptable!I have become proficient at reading the labels on tins and spotting just how much salt and sugar is added to everyday foods, along with a list of preservatives, E numbers and flavour enhancers. Manufacturers are compelled to print the ingredients of all food items on the packaging. All, that is, except for the "specialist bread" range which I saw recently at a branch of Morrisons Supermarkets.  I wonder if it is the same at other supermarket chains? These loaves simply carry a title like "spelt and rye".  How do we know that the commonly used soya flour is not an ingredient, which preservative has been used or how organic is the spelt and rye? They look like organic loaves but carry no organic label.Morrisons' staff do not know the ingredients of this bread and now it appears neither does the customer relations department of the supermarket, with whom I have been attempting an email exchange.  I say "attempting" because it seems that customers are allowed only one chance to email their concerns via the supermarket's website. After reading Morrisons' reply - which entirely missed my point and suggested that I buy their sliced bread, sold in plastic bags - I have not been able to elicit another response.I know I am not alone in trying to fight off disease through a healthy diet. It is no good trying to replace the right foods with multi-vitamins and minerals - espeically as some of the high street brands offer shockingly bad products. To make the correct choices, we need to know the quality and traceability of the ingredients in our food. It is not always possible to find shops which sell organic products and most of us have to look to our local supermarkets to help us.So, Mr Morrison, perhaps you would consider allowing your customers into the secret of your "specialist bread range".  After all, we are what we eat.