Last week I visited The Breast Cancer Haven in Leeds and found a modern and cleverly designed sanctuary for people with breast cancer - and their families and friends - to visit, find reassurance and take advantage of the therapies, support groups and seminars on offer. This was the third Haven to open - the other two are in London and Hereford - and since 2008 it has welcomed over 600 women as visitors (not patients). There is room for many more.I was talking to the team and we were speculating as to why it was that so few people in Leeds have actually heard of the Haven - especially the GPs. It is exactly the same in London. The large hospitals and cancer centres know all about the Havens and other support organisations. They point their patients in the right direction - but, for some reason, despite the leaflets and DVDs being hand-delivered to GPs in their surgeries, general practitioners are not making their patients aware of these places.The excuse is that surgeries are bombarded with literature and the doctors do not have time to read it all. Hang on a minute - most surgeries do not operate at lunchtime, in the evening or at weekends. Too many GPs are either part time or their workload is effectively part-time. Surely, given the large sums they now receive, should they not be obliged to find the time to read crucial information as part of their contract? After all, in many other professions people have work and research to do outside office hours, so why not the GPs? We hope doctors still want the very best for the people they look after, so why can they not find the time to read information about a place where their patients will be able to find the comfort and reassurance they need?It is patently obvious to me that, by taking your worries to a Breast Cancer Haven and not your GP, you are freeing up time for another patient.It would be a start if the GPs' receptionists pinned up the leaflets in their surgeries and knew a little about the work done by these organisations. I wonder just how many GPs' surgeries in the catchment area of The Havens - and of other centres of support for cancer sufferers - bother to make sure patients know these places exist?Breast cancer patients - indeed all cancer patients - need to know there is someone to talk to, either before, during or, probably most importantly, after treatment. It is a great shock to the system to discover suddenly that, once the treatment is finished, there is no aftercare offered by the NHS.  One minute you have doctors, nurses and technicians rallying round you and the next you are out in the moonlight. Too many people feel that visiting the GP is "making a fuss" and so suffer needlessly at home, trying bravely to carry on as before but besieged with doubts and fears. One patient to whom I spoke said she felt that as soon as her treatment had ended she was "dropped from the radar".If the NHS is not prepared to fund aftercare and the GPs are not offering support groups themselves, then places like The Breast Cancer Haven are doing a vital job.If you live within reach of a Haven, please ask at your surgery if staff are aware of these support centres. There are nurses, counsellors and therapists waiting to help their patients.