We are steaming towards polling day, but it does not seem to me that any of the political parties have seriously addressed a single one of our questions about their policies on prevention, treatment and aftercare for cancer patients. Or have I missed something? If anyone has managed to elicit any answers from their candidates, please let me know.It is breathtaking to me that the Labour Party feels it is acceptable not to apologise for writing personal letters to breast cancer patients. This gross intrusion into people's lives is unforgivable. Some of these letters were opened by the grieving partners of women who had died from the disease, others by women who had simply gone for a mammogram and were waiting for the result.  Why has the Civil Service, who are custodians of all kinds of information about us, not investigated how this information reached the Labour Party and, crucially, how are they going to stop it happening in the future - when we are all going to be wired into the central computer and anyone with a cloned card can read our notes?I am in no way a political animal but a mere "bum on a seat" - as I am told our "representatives" call us - which is, of course, a theatrical term.  If that is how they think of us, perhaps it makes all politics an illusion.  Certainly, the spectacle of the three leaders debating X-factor style does nothing to reassure me that any of them will face up to their responsibilities to those of us living with cancer.  We could offer a great many suggestions to our politicians but would they listen?  I don't think so.I am well aware that the NHS is finding it difficult to cope.  Medical science has progressed so rapidly that the sheer number of patients means an overload of the system.  Let us be honest and admit this fact. Examples are seen every day.  Last year I wrote, on behalf of my Mother, to the Medical Director of Scarborough Hospital.  Today I received his reply - six months later.Then there was the lady who paid for an initial consultation with a surgeon, only then to be refused NHS treatment.  Surely the NHS should be grateful that she freed up an appointment for someone who was unable to pay - that is what the NHS is all about, isn't it?Excuse me for repeating myself but please do not forget the ladies who opt for mastectomies rather than drive 160 miles a day to attend the nearest radiotherapy unit.Those of us, like me, whose brand of tamoxifen has been withdrawn - because the government decreed it is slightly more expensive - are now back on the generic medication and all the nasty side effects have returned with a vengeance.  I do not believe that anyone would object to paying a couple of pounds a month towards the cost - if we were allowed so to do.  With the cuts, about which each party is forever talking, does this mean that for every illness we will find ourselves taking the generic form of tablet - no matter how debilitating the side effects?I will be watching Round Three of the political debates to see if David, Gordon or Nick gives us his properly considered plan - but I am not holding my breath.