Researchers in Stockholm are telling us that girls who were underweight before they reached the age of 7 are at greater risk of developing breast cancer. They are very excited about these findings because it means that family photographs can be brought into play and studied at great length to determine whether or not a patient falls into this category. I don't need to look at childhood photographs to remember that I was the skinniest child you could imagine - but, in those days, all children were thin.  I don't remember any overweight children at school with me and my closest school-friend died ten years ago from the disease. That is two of us who developed it - do we confirm these findings?Is this research implying that girls growing up now - so many of whom are overweight from an early age - will be protected from breast cancer? Surely that can't be right. Does this mean that we take our collective eye off the dangers of obesity? After all, you rarely see an overweight person in a retirement home. Not that long ago, another research project- from Copenhagen - informed us that those who weighed more than 4 kilos (eight and three quarter pounds) at birth are more likely to develop breast cancer. This completely contradicts the Stockholm results. So what and who are we to believe?Hardly a week goes by without the results of yet another research project. This is all very fine and good for the researchers but, as far as I understand it, no one has yet proved conclusively the definite cause - or causes. I look at my Mother who has lived a full and varied life, not without more than her share of stress along the way. She indulged her love of chocolate, never skimped on cream or cheese and always enjoyed a glass of wine or whisky. She is 96, has never been overweight and cancer has not touched her. In the days before the gym became the norm, she took a good, brisk daily walk. Was this what saved her? Stop!  I am going down the researchers' road. My wonderful Consultant told me to "put it down to bad luck" and, until conclusive evidence to the contrary can be produced, that is my way forward.  It is no good beating yourself up because you had a few too many glasses of wine, ate too much cheese or decided to take HRT. Tomorrow the cause will be something completely different. Yes please, let's have lots of valuable research but do let us keep the conclusions inside the bigger picture. 