We woke this morning to hear on the radio that "breast cancer rates have fallen faster in the UK, since the 1980's, than in any other major European country."  Excellent news - but wait a moment, there's a caveat.  "Mortality rates from the disease continue to be among the highest in Europe." Professors Beral and Peto from Oxford University told the British Medical Journal (where the results have been published online) that "death rates are a better guide to how the UK is doing because incomplete data makes survival rates seem significantly worse than they really are."Eh?  What does that mean exactly? Just more statistics for us to try and comprehend or a real step forward? Does it help or confuse us?  Their use of the English language is certainly not helping!Yes - of course it is good news that the death rates have fallen but they were, and are still, much higher initially than other countries. In fact, it appears that England and Wales have risen from the bottom of the league table for women to number 22 (no figures for men) - way below Spain, which is number 1. The UK may have a better system of detection, with mammograms picking up cancer much earlier than in other countries, but - according to Professor Karol Sikora - "our treatment is still not as good here compared with some other European countries and there are still delays in the system."Apart from this news allowing every expert to give his or her personal opinion as to the causes of breast cancer - this morning I have heard obesity, alcohol misuse and not having children, or having them late in life, cited as reasons - where does it take us? Also (once again, these experts are concentrating on women) clearly the last example could not refer to breast cancer in men. I am uneasy, too, about the amount of coverage given to the theory that childless women are more likely to develop breast cancer. There are all sorts of reasons why women do not have children - personal choice is just one. It is bad enough for those women who, through illness or bad luck, find themselves childless, without cancer experts adding to their distress. What do these experts expect women in this position to do? This particular theory is frightening to women and I am not happy that it is so often added to the list of possible causes, along with lifestyle, obesity and alcohol misuse - all of which can be altered.On the Today programme, John Humphrys described breast cancer as the popular "sexy" cancer.  A strange word to use but I know just what he means. He asked if, with the success shown by the figures released today, we should now concentrate on other cancers - not so "sexy" to the public.  He has a point but, as we are really no further forward in confirming the exact causes of breast cancer, it is too early to take our eyes off that particular ball. However, perhaps those working for the large breast cancer charities could offer their experience to the lesser-known charities who are working so hard to give support and fund research for those suffering from "unsexy" cancers? All cancer sufferers deserve the same degree of attention.And it's worth noting, the results of this study are  from the International Agency for Research on Cancer (in Lyon, France), whose team, in turn, analysed data from the World Health Organisation.  As my children would say - "how confusing is that?"