First of all, I must apologise to Professor Jane Plant for describing her in my last post as a geologist.  She is, in fact, a geochemist and - as she explained to me - "It was knowing enough chemistry that helped me to understand the scientific literature on cancer".She and her Plant Programme sprang to mind again yesterday when I read the conclusion of The World Cancer Research Fund's analysis of international cancer statistics. This shows that breast cancer rates in Eastern Africa are four times lower than those in the UK and in Eastern Asia the rates are three times lower.  The western diet of fast food and fast lifestyle must be high on the list of causes.I am sure these statistics will come as no surprise to Jane Plant - after all, as I mentioned in my last post, she has been proved completely right about Abdelbaset Ali al-Megrahi, the Libyan bomber who was returned to his country on compassionate grounds with three months to live but is still alive a year later. Jane believes firmly that once he left behind the Scottish prison diet, high in dairy, processed and fried foods, and began again to eat a more Mediterranean diet full of olive oil, fruit and vegetables, he would do better.Some doctors, if challenged on the place of diet in the causes of all forms of cancer, are very wary of giving an opinion. In fact, in Jane Plant's book, there is a case study of  a lady called Marcia who, having had surgery for breast cancer and having read The Plant Programme, decided that she would follow a dairy-free diet. Her oncologist could not be persuaded and insisted that dairy food was essential "for the bones", despite Marcia's challenge that "hippopotamuses and elephants don't eat dairy foods and they have better bones than me". Marcia stuck to her beliefs, changed her diet - not just eliminating dairy food but steering clear of all processed food and eating only organic food and a little organic meat. Not only did she keep her hair during her chemotherapy sessions - and I have heard of other women who firmly believe they kept their hair because they drank juices high in folic acid, like apple, carrot, fennel and melon - but she is now cancer-free and determined to spread the word.I am interested to read the quote from Dr Caitlin Palframan, pertaining to the figures released by the WCRF. Dr Palframan is the policy manager at Breakthrough Breast Cancer. She says: "Breast cancer is thought to be a combination of lifestyle, genetic and environmental factors and many of these may differ between the UK and other populations. Although some risk factors cannot be changed, women can reduce their risk by drinking less alcohol, maintaining a healthy weight and exercising regularly". No mention of nutrition. I would be fascinated to know where Breakthrough stands on this issue. Perhaps someone would be kind enough to contact me - judith.potts@telegraph.co.ukSurely it is the right of the patient, when diagnosed with any form of cancer, to be given all the information about complementary therapies and nutrition and not just that of conventional treatment? Shouldn't we be allowed to make up our own minds - but, of course, in order to do that we need to be privy to so much more than just the regular options. Did anyone offer you advice on nutrition or complementary therapies? I suspect if you are reading this in France, the answer will be "yes". I am told that when a GP prescribes antibiotics in France, he or she also prescribes a natural remedy to counter the side-effects of the antibiotic. Does anyone have experience of medicine in France?With more and more scientific proof that "we are what we eat" - and Jamie Oliver striving to feed our schoolchildren with school lunches free of turkey twizzlers, chips and burgers (which obviously have little nutritive values) - why is it that all the good work done by the media to raise awareness of the harm we are doing ourselves by our fast food culture is being ignored?