There is confusion over the promise - made by the last Labour government - that all patients, whose GP suspects they might have cancer, would be guaranteed an appointment with a specialist within two weeks. David Cameron seems to think that this target is unworkable and that some cancer patients need to be seen more quickly and others more slowly. Simon Burns, Minister for Health, was then quoted as saying (if you can make sense of this!):Earl Howe, Health Minister in the House of Lords, confirmed Burns' statement.Do we believe them? I am not sure. The proposed independent Commissioning Board, which will be set up in 2012 to oversee the NHS, will be the final arbiter of these promises (even though in politics there is a rarely any such thing as an "independent" quango cast free from political interference).Seeing a consultant after two weeks does not mean that treatment will begin the next day. At the moment the target for that is 18 weeks. This is much too long a wait for some patients, particularly those young women whose breast cancers are likely to be the most aggressive. This makes the two week obsession less important than when the treatment begins, because - as is now proven beyond doubt - the earlier the cancer is treated the better the prognosis.GPs are about to be handed much greater freedom to take decisions on treatment. At the moment too many GPs are dismissing patients' fears and refusing to refer them to a specialist - often until it is too late for effective treatment. I know of too many cases where this has happened, with tragic consequences.What will happen when the GPs have even more power? We should be able to self-refer and, given Mr Cameron's repeated mantra of returning power to the individual, perhaps this is the moment to break free from these rigid practices, which may suit the medical world but do not do enough for their patients.GPs are supposed to act as a conduit between the patient and the appropriate consultant. If in any doubt, they should refer the patient immediately. At the moment, the Primary Care Trusts limit the number of referrals made by a GP, so once again, we have the real risk of politicians setting targets which look good in the headlines but, drill down a bit, and the reality does not match the expectation.When your GP suspects you may have cancer, your anxiety levels rise immediately and you want to be seen by a specialist the next day. We all know that is unrealistic but the fact that a consultant must see you within two weeks gives you some reassurance. However, having seen the consultant, you discover that the timetable for treatment is a very different story.