10.36am: Good morning and welcome to the Newsdesk live blog.This morning we have already had news from the high court, where judges have ruled that the government did not act illegally in introducing university fees of up to £9,000 a year. There's some background to the story here. Our education correspondent Jessica Shepherd is at the court and has filed her first take on the story, which will be on the website shortly. As she reports, the students have failed in their challenge to fees, but the judges did make some criticisms of the policy, and of the actions of Vince Cable, the minister responsible for universities.11.20am: Shiv Malik, who wrote today's lead story on disabled people being required to take on unpaid work placements or face a possible loss of benefits, is currently working through all the comments that readers have left under the story (currently 1,400+ and rising) and on the Guardian's Facebook app.Readers' contributions have been crucial to our recent coverage of welfare reform and the consequences of the changes the government is making to the benefits system. As Shiv wrote on the thread last night:You can tweet Shiv at @ShivMalik1 I've asked Shiv to update us on where he plans to go next with this story - and others he's been working on, such as the Tesco workfare one - and will post his response on the blog soon. Do let us know your thoughts below, too.12.52pm: My colleague Shiv Malik has been looking through readers' comments on his story about disabled and long-term sick people being required to do unpaid work placements. Shiv writes:Other readers have expressed fears about what will happen to them under this new policy, Shiv adds.Shiv is now following up on reader input to develop the story, and other media are now looking into it, he notes.1.20pm: An interesting #opennews story: my colleague Jonathan Haynes points me in the direction of this story that the BBC World Service is to broadcast its morning editorial conference as part of its 80th birthday celebrations.The Guardian holds a similar conference every weekday morning at 10am; while it's open to everyone who works here (and sometimes some invited guests, too), and broadcast live on our intranet system, we haven't yet experimented with sharing it with a wider audience. Though when we've used pictures of the conference to illustrate this blog and others, it's the yellow sofas that usually attract the most comment...Would this be something readers would be interested in seeing?6.02pm: Several posters on the comment thread beneath the story about disabled people being required to do unpaid work have asked for more details of the Department for Work and Pensions' plans. So that readers can see for themselves what the DWP is proposing, we've been working this afternoon on getting the documents online - with some annotation from reporter Shiv Malik - and these will be on the website imminently.Thanks for all your comments and tweets today. I'm wrapping up the blog now; have a good weekend.