We might not agree with them, but Sidelines does acknowledge that those who oppose women ministers in the Church of England have their reasons - Jesus only picking male apostles, for instance, and the hassle of making vestments in lady sizes. But the news, released by the Church Society in response to this week's report recommending the ordination of women bishops, that "the numbers of men and children in congregations has fallen by around 20%" since women got in on the priestly act has us worried. Have we missed the theological debate raging in primary school playgrounds across the land? Men are less likely to go to a church that has a woman in charge, a Church Society spokesman tells us, and while women continue to turn out each Sunday in respectable numbers, children are less likely to attend without both parents in the pews. So let's get this straight: women are keeping congregrations in double figures - and still they're responsible for the decline of the church?  Coming soon: Femi-X, another trick designed to get women going. The supposedly aphrodisiac qualities of these tablets derive from herbs including horny goatweed (of course!), gingko biloba and matté, which is "said to enhance endurance". Now, we can't speak for the whole of womankind, but we're pretty sure "endurance" doesn't come too high on most women's sexual wish lists.  "I am a woman who has been a music obsessive since I first listened to John Peel, under the bedsheets, aged 15," writes Elizabeth Alway, one of tons of you who emailed to let us know that women can be unashamed music anoraks and Peel fans, too. Katherine from Household Name Records credits her discovery of the Peel Sessions LPs while a teenager in Sydney for her decision to move to the UK and set up her own label and record shop.  "Female artists have always struggled to be recognised for their musical talent rather than their looks and image," writes Katherine Barnes, formerly of the Gymslips, who recorded a Peel Session in the early 80s. "John Peel was one of the few who provided that sort of recognition." Just some of the female artists that Peel championed and you loved: the Slits, the Raincoats, June Tabor, PJ Harvey, Maddy Prior, Belly, Grace Slick, X-Ray Spex, Siouxsie ... There's more, we know, and like all proper music obsessives, we're sure you've got a thousand diligently put-together compilation tapes of the stuff.
    