Young women have got the government worried. Our drinking is, apparently, out of control. And so the No 10 strategy unit report on alcohol misuse, due this month, is expected to recommend a public information campaign aimed at the "Bridget Jones generation". Concerned department of health officials will back this up with a new Hello!-style magazine, Your Life!, packed with celebrity-endorsed, cautionary tales about the dangers of binge drinking.  If it is indeed "our life", may I suggest the government leaves us in peace with our GTs? It might not - judging by the fluffy weapons it's lining up against us - think much of our ability to make intelligent decisions about how much and how often we drink, but what makes me more uncomfortable is the use of that age-old, keep-'em-in-their-place tactic: shame.  Binge drinking undeniably has its considerable downsides. The occasional hangover might be a price worth paying; the increased risk of heart or liver disease is a long-term gamble we all play with. By all means, warn us about unlicensed minicabs, drug rapes and rising rates of sexually transmitted diseases.  But behind the legitimate publicising of the dangers of alcohol seems to lurk a more insidious agenda. The tone is judgmental: why are these women drinking so much/at all? That dreaded word "ladette" pops up again and again. Pictures of a tipsy starlet falling into a car with her knickers showing are splashed across the tabloids. Is that who you really want to be? What will people think of you? What kind of trouble are you asking for?  We demand explanations for women's drinking that we don't ask of men's, as if falling over after a few pints were an exclusively male right. (It's not a desirable activity, it has to be said, but not one that's inherently worse for involving stiletto heels.)  Drunk women - particularly drunk women in public - are unseemly, distasteful. But drunk women are also, in the context of the antisocial consequences of excessive drinking, much more likely to be victims than aggressors.  True, we do sometimes get through a whole bottle of wine in a night (officially a binge, which is six units of alcohol). We already know it's probably not, all things considered, a very good idea. But we're not, most of us, doing it every night, we won't do it for ever, and we're extremely unlikely to leave the pub and start a fight.  Consider the following: 25% of male binge drinkers aged 18-24 have been involved in violent crime in the past 12 months (compared with 3% of women); in 2001, 23,700 men and 2,500 women were found guilty of drunkenness.  There's more: the average weekly consumption of alcohol is 16.9 units for men and 7.5 for women, and "up to 40% of men's drinking sessions now technically qualify as binge drinking", said a Strategy Unit report in September last year.  So why pick on us? The number of women who binge-drink is indeed on the rise: 15% knock back more than the recommended 14 units a week, up from 12% in 1992. But the percentage of men exceeding their allowance of 21 units stands at 27%, as it has done for a decade. So if there's finger-pointing to be done, try them.  Despite the campaigns and the health warnings, those men are not listening. Many young women, though, probably are. They are the women who tell their friends at the start of the evening, "Don't let me drink too much", and have guilt pangs on a Saturday morning because, after all, they did. The embarrassment they feel when that extra cocktail shows up on the waistline, is fertile ground for the blame now attached to showing themselves up in public.  What we forget is that Zoe Ball and Sara Cox, supposed champions of "ladette" culture, gave up all that tottering out of clubs and stashing Jack Daniels in their handbags years ago, when they, well, grew up. And most of those binge-drinking women the government has in its sights will, no doubt, at some point do the same.  The strand of opinion that recoils from the sight of ladies stumbling along the pavement late at night, laughing loudly and perhaps even singing, would obviously prefer their eventual abstinence to come sooner rather than later. It is hard to imagine young male bingers responding to such pressure. But come one Friday night soon, you might find that those young women who are usually perched in the corner with a couple of Martinis have finally tired of the scrutiny and gone home in disgrace.  · Claire Phipps is deputy editor of Education Guardian  claire.phipps@guardian.co.uk
    