Parents whose children attend Hurst Hills Elementary School, part of the Hurst-Euless-Bedford ISD, must ask tough questions of the school and the district this morning. How was it possible for a 17-year-old, now in custody on child pornography charges, to pose as a sixth-grader on the campus since August?Tougher though will be the questions those parents must ask their own children — and the adults' willingness to deal with any horrific answers they might hear in response. For their children's well being, parents need to confront this ugly story and its possible impact on their own kids.The Hurst Hills Elementary tragedy is only beginning to reveal itself. This much we know, 17-year-old Ricardo Lugo has been posing as a 12-year-old sixth-grader at the school since August;  Randy Wesson, 28, has been posing as Lugo's father, claiming to neighbors that Lugo was his "long lost son."But here's the truth as best we know it: According to the DMN and NBC5 reports, court documents state that Wesson and Lugo have been involved in a sexual relationship since Wesson met Lugo on Instagram and drove to El Paso to pick him up. Lugo's mom says he went missing in El Paso six months ago.From there, they apparently set up shop in the Hurst Hills neighborhood. Lugo enrolled at Hurst Hills courtesy of a faked birth certificate and immunization records.The two apparently devised a scheme in which Lugo used his school time to recruit potential victims for the pair's child pornography activities.Whether he was successful is not yet clear. But Wesson "confessed that police would find approximately 42,000 child pornography images on his computer, thumb drive, phone and SD cards." Police said Wesson also admitted to sexually abusing more than 100 children between the ages of 7 and 14.How many Hurst Hills students may be among the victims is unknown. Documents related to images found on the phone belonging to Lugo show him spanking a child who appeared in a previous photograph taken at school.Lugo and Wesson are now in custody on child porn charges. But Hurst parents can take little comfort in their arrests until they can determine whether their children were victimized — and in what ways.If Wesson's confession about the porn and molestations turns out to be true, regardless of whether it's actually Hurst Hills children who suffered physical or psychological injury, a large number of children somewhere have suffered.Most of us understand that, tragically, most young people suffer in silence rather than acknowledge sexual abuse, whatever form that comes in. That's just as true of middle schoolers as preschoolers.It's critical that, with the help of the school system and experts that certainly will need to be brought on board to help, parents ask enough questions -  and the appropriate questions — to find out whether their children might be victims. It's tough stuff, but this can't be to ask a vague question or two then move on.Many of us know first-hand the trauma, often years in the making, that only festers and multiplies if children don't get help in sexual abuse situations.I've mentioned in blog posts before that I and others around me suffered abuse as children. In my family's case, the adults wanted to just brush it under the carpet and move on because "best not to talk about that kind of stuff." The result was a repulsive situation that only became worse. Rather than scars, which are bad enough, open wounds are still burning, decades after the abuse.There's nothing particularly special about the Grigsby family story. We are just one of many that has paid the price for predators, whether in our midst or in our communities. But those of us who survived would offer this advice:The parents at Hurst Hills can't change anything that might have happened — but they can change how the story ends. It's important they have the courage to do so.