 iPod owners struggle to get help from Apple The ubiquitous Apple iPod may inspire hagiolatry among its millions of owners, but when things go wrong, Poddies are equally quick to curse its flaws - and the way the company goes about dealing with them. Several of Consumer's readers have recently joined the ranks of dissenters. Simon Charles writes from Maidenhead to point out an unusual quirk in Apple's repair policy. "I bought an iPod for my son for Christmas [2004] and after one week, the battery was already down to only 30 minutes' use, [which is] no good," he writes. "Apple said I should take the unit back to the retailer because I had only just bought it." However, the retailer, in west London, suggested that Charles send it back to Apple for repair via the website. But he was perturbed to find, when scrolling through the service request pages online, that, having waved his iPod off to the repair centre, "you will not receive the same iPod that was sent in for service". As Charles puts it: "I was not impressed that Apple now wanted to take my new iPod off me and give me a second-hand one in return."  Another reader, Keith Hagenbach, has not yet got as far as worrying about the iPod that might be returned to him. He cannot register for a repair at all on the Apple website. Having purchased a 20GB iPod from the spangly new Apple store in central London last December, he was not particularly happy when it ceased to function in mid-January. The company's advice was to go back to the store's advice centre and await a diagnosis. "This is totally impractical; we live 40 miles out of London," he says. The alternative, it seemed, was to register on the Apple website, after which the iPod would be collected, patched up and returned. "But I have tried repeatedly for two weeks to register on the website," he writes. "Same message on each occasion - 'problem sending registration details. Try again'. We did... and again. No success." Hagenbach is reluctant to criticise the saintly machine: "It is one of three iPods in our family. We like them. We do not like Apple's lack of integrity in failing to supply reliable and prompt repairs for practically new iPods that develop a fault.  "Our suspicion is that we are not alone in experiencing problems, hence the website service is so overloaded that it is no longer functioning."  His suspicion that he is not alone in his frustrations is certainly the case if Consumer's postbag is anything to go by. Along with tales of warped plastic on the mini-iPod models and unhelpful customer services, comes a letter from Wayne Garvie, of London, about the rather abrupt battery life of his 30GB iPod, bought in September 2003. "By the end of the warranty period, it was becoming clear that the battery power was decreasing substantially," he writes. "I tried to ring Apple's consumer hotline, which is in Ireland, and was told that as the warranty had expired, it was tough luck and nothing could be done. As it cost more than £400 and was no longer useful for any train journey or flight, I wasn't happy with this."  Again, Garvie found common cause with other iPod-owners. "I started asking other people and it became clear that the earlier iPod models suffer from substantial battery deterioration... Apparently if you went to the Apple store in London, they would swap your model for a newer one." So off he went, only to come up once more against the obstacle of that expired warranty - though the assistants were, he says, "charming" and sympathetic to the problem. On their advice, Garvie wrote to the manager of the store in December, but has yet to receive a reply; nor can he reach said manager by phone.  "I accept the warranty was up when I first contacted Apple," he says. "However, in effect the organisation was selling products with a shelf-life just beyond the warranty period... To compound matters, there appears to be no one you can actually engage in dialogue with at Apple to discuss this."   Consumer does, at least, manage to find an actual person at Apple to engage with, though it takes a month of needling to elicit a concrete response to this mini catalogue of worries. And the wait, sad to say, could hardly be said to be worth it.  "Apple clearly states within the terms and conditions of its one-year limited warranty relating to iPod and iSight that..." begins the ominously non-specific reply, before citing the standard terms and conditions (you can find them online at www.apple.com/legal/warranty/ipodisight.html should you really want to read through the   detailed list of rights and exclusions). The company suggests that those suffering problems with iPods should enlist the help of the online support site or technical helpline - not much use if, like Hagenbach, you can't register your details in the first place. The spokeswoman adds: "Customers have the additional option of taking their iPod to an Apple retail store in person," although the customers on this page have not had much success with that tactic either.  Pushed on the issue of returning a "refurbished" model and not the one that was sent in via the repair service, a spokeswoman explained that this was done in part to ensure customers received an iPod back as quickly as possible, and emphasised that the replacement would always be of the same standard as the original model.  But none of this is of much use to our correspondents; indeed, the spokeswoman concedes that this is the "corporate response". She does, however, promise to contact the individuals who have spilt their iPod woes here to try, at last, to find a remedy for their stalled music machines.  So, unusually, Consumer cannot report the imminent arrival of spruced-up replacements on the doormats of Messrs Charles, Hagenbach and Garvie, though we will, of course, check the progress of those Apple efforts. In the meantime, perhaps, given the apparent epidemic of iPod flaws, those with hitches to report should contact Consumer - we will, naturally, forward them all to Apple for that individual attention.  · Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your full address and phone number.