 Get that dress to the church in time   Despite what the bridal magazines might tell you, there's not much that can go wrong on your wedding day that can't be glossed over. It is a fact that no guest will notice if the flower girls' bouquets do not match the swagging on the cake table. However, they are quite likely to notice if the bride's dress doesn't turn up. This was the situation facing reader Tess Lowson at the start of this week. As her wedding day is this Saturday, she was, understandably, more than a little stressed by this unexpected hitch. "I'm thinking I will end up getting married in jeans," she says.  Which is not exactly what she envisaged back in October, when she ordered her gown from Pronuptia in   Southampton. She assumed all was going to plan, but when she rang to check on the progress of the dress at the beginning of February, she was told it was not ready; a few days later, she was informed that staff at the branch did not know where the dress was. By February 14, it had been traced to the manufacturers in China, but Lowson was warned that it might not be ready in time for March 5 (though it is unclear what use Pronuptia staff thought it could be put to after that date).  Although she was, at that point, offered her money back, her other options were by then rather limited. As her sister, Fritha Organ, puts it in a letter to Consumer: "The dilemma is obvious - does she risk that the dress appears and in good time for   any alterations? Or does she take the offer of cash and search for another dress? All those she has seen which she could buy off the peg are not a patch on the one in Pronuptia."  Consumer tries the Southampton store directly but, ominously, the phone rings unanswered. So instead we go right to the top, to chairman Jim Mumford. Pronuptia branches are franchises, he explains, but he promises to get things moving - and, sure enough, by Monday this week, Lowson is told that her dress has arrived, just in time. A (necessarily) speedy result indeed. After all, as Mumford puts it, the business   of wedding frocks "is not like selling somebody a jumper".  However, the magical reappearance of the dress is, sadly, not the end of the story. The necessary alterations, Lowson is told by the branch, will have to be arranged by her. They can give her the number of a recommended seamstress - although there is no guarantee that she will be able to make the essential tweaks before the weekend. Lowson is also told that she must foot the bill for this part herself. "I can't believe the amount of stress and distress this has caused me," she says, "and now this is just one more thing." Fed up with this unexpected extra strain in the run-up to her wedding, Lowson is now considering finding her own, non-Pronuptia-connected dressmaker to do the final fittings.  Back, then, to Mumford, who explains that it is "normal practice" to refer customers to a seamstress for final fitting. But he agrees, given the extra pre-nuptial hair-tearing this episode has caused Lowson, to reimburse her for any costs incurred for alterations. She, at least, is just relieved she won't be walking down the aisle in those jeans.     The computer whose spec didn't match up    The advert, published in the Guardian at the close of last year, was pretty clear: "Looking for your ideal PC? Then don't miss the Dell January sale . . . We're offering spectacular deals on top of our already low prices." Alongside was a picture of a laptop, priced at £612 including VAT and delivery, that caught the eye of reader James Patterson, from Derby.  He purchased the Inspiron 1150 Notebook at the start of January, only to find that what turned up was not quite what had been advertised. The memory, trumpeted in the ad as 512MB, was just 256MB; the processor, trailed as 2.8GHz, was actually 2.6GHz. Even more gallingly, Patterson was charged the not-quite-so-special price of £657 for this reduced-spec model. "I have telephoned Dell numerous times," writes Patterson. "My calls were either unanswered or passed around various departments until I ran out of patience ... The sales representative at Dell appeared to be unaware of the Guardian advertisement. Can you please help to resolve this issue?"   Sending over a copy of the advert in question seems to prompt a few memories at Dell HQ. The mismatched delivery has now    been properly investigated and it does indeed turn out that Patterson has not received the laptop he should have had. A spokeswoman explains: "Our customer escalations team have contacted Mr Patterson directly and apologised for his experience in communicating with Dell. We have agreed to change his computer and provided a refund for the additional charges he incurred." The mix-up has, promises the company, been taken very seriously. But it's a reminder that it's not a bad idea to check that you do get what you have paid for.     Address unknown    An update: reader John Gansler wrote to Consumer back in January bemoaning the constant stream of warning letters from TV Licensing to flat 19 in his block - despite there being only 18 flats and despite his "half a dozen" attempts to inform TVL of this fact.  TV Licensing is now on the case and has corrected its records so that no further demands for payment are sent to the non-existent property. It will also, it says, "be advising Royal Mail of this, so that they too can update their records". Yet the wheels of admin do, as always, grind slowly: "There is one more letter in our mailing system, which we have been unable to stop, but Mr Gansler should please ignore this."· Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your full address and phone number.