 Capital One gives credit where it is not wanted  Among the sheaves of junk mail that regularly bother the doormats of Consumer readers, few - apart from bogus "lottery wins" and strings-attached prize draws - arouse as much frustration as mailings from credit card companies. Many of you, it seems, dislike the idea of outlandish offers of hefty spending power being dangled in front of you. It was a point of view backed last week in a report by the Treasury select committee, which warned that: "[By] encouraging responsible borrowing, credit card companies can provide people with better advice and prevent consumers from building up unsustainable debts." But it is not just those customers at risk of racking up debts who would like to see the back of these direct mailings. Reader Christian Kuepers from Croydon is one of them. "For months, I've been returning unsolicited mailings from the Capital One credit card," he writes. "I am registered with the mail preference scheme, so should not get such mailings in the first place." Kuepers rang Capital One directly and asked to be taken off the list: "That was three weeks ago and still they come!"  Kuepers' main concern, apart from his irritation at the continuing   deliveries, was that the mailings were, in most cases, pre-filled-in application forms, "which may be misused should they fall into the wrong hands". The company's promotional literature trumpets, among other products, its "no hassle" platinum card; Kuepers, for one, feels hassled by its constant attempts at seduction.  "Anything you can do to remove me from their clutches," he pleads.   - As it points out on its website, Capital One "supports the Mailing Preference Service. The Mailing Preference Service enables people to remove their name from the lists that are used by companies who send out offers to consumers via direct mail." A spokesman confirms, however, that even a direct request to be wiped from the list does not result in an immediate end to mailings. There can be, he says, "an unfortunate lag of time from when we turn off the switch ... it may be a matter of weeks before they stop." Letters already in the system or on their way to your door cannot be called back, he says.  In Kuepers' case, it seems the persistent post problem might have been exacerbated by the fact that Capital One had two records for him at the same address. These have now been   "suppressed" and he should receive no more packs from the company.  As for the question of pre-completed application forms, the spokesman insists that: "This pack represents no specific risk to Mr Kuepers." But, as numerous articles on the dangers of credit card fraud have warned, such personal information could indeed be risky if it ends up with the wrong person. In fact, a survey in November last year revealed that three-quarters of us are concerned about the risks of identity theft. The survey was commissioned by Capital One.      The age-old problem of not having a televison From Capital One to Capita, administrators of TV Licensing and by-now regular visitors to these pages. Recent delvings into the workings of licence-fee collection have revealed the problems faced by non-telly-owning readers in persuading TVL that they have no need for a licence at all (Dear Claire, January 20). Now, two readers write to ask whether the free licence granted to those over 75 is really free at all. Dan Levett writes from West Dulwich, London, to say that, having previously been pursued to buy a licence for a television he doesn't own, once he let them know he was in his 70s, the tactics changed: "They gave up demanding a confession of guilt, but persisted in holding me as having and using a telly by sending me a licence free of charge as an old age pensioner ... an unwanted renewal licence now turns up, insultingly, once a year."  Another reader, who wishes to remain anonymous to avoid further entanglement in the TVL system, writes to say that his mother-in-law, who is in her 90s, was regularly asked to prove she did not own a set. "[I] pointed out that there was no pecuniary benefit to her by not paying a licence fee even if she had a set, as she was exempt on the grounds of age." Both readers wonder whether a fee is paid to the BBC on their behalf when a "free" licence is dished out, regardless of whether the over-75-year-old in question actually possesses a television.  - The answer is: yes. "The BBC is fully compensated by the government" for any free licences issued to over-75s, confirms a TVL spokeswoman. A free licence, of course, is a benefit to the majority of over-75s, but for those who, like these two readers, object on principled grounds, it seems they must choose between accepting the free licence or continuing their efforts to convince TVL that there is no telly in their home.     Ticketmaster is just the ticket for some U2 fans Last week, we recounted the tale of Michael Murray who, having paid $40 (£21.50) to join the U2.com fan site with the promise of being able to purchase tour tickets before they went on sale to the general public, found that the Ticketmaster site was inaccessible for the three pre-sale days in question. John Brownlow writes from Bolton with a rather happier outcome to the same problem. "My wife joined U2.com for the same reason and we experienced exactly the same problems ... the web links just sent you round in circles. However, our emails to Ticketmaster did produce positive, albeit automated, responses." A suggestion to turn off the firewall on their computer did not work - "although we did get a couple of unexpected pornographic downloads".  But in Brownlow's case, Ticketmaster proved rather more helpful than it did to Murray. An email from the site asked for a telephone number on which they could be contacted during the evening before the tickets went on general sale. Even better, a Ticketmaster representative did then ring and secured the desired tickets for them. "Yes, Ticketmaster needs to iron out the glitches if it is going to use this presale procedure again, but almost full marks to it for actually dealing with our problems reasonably efficiently," writes Brownlow. However, he concedes: "I am sorry if other U2 fans didn't have the same eventual success.· Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your full address and phone number.