 I still haven't found what I'm looking for  Tickets for U2's upcoming Vertigo tour went on sale last week, and sold out within hours. No surprise there - except for those fans who had already paid $40 (£21) for an exclusive "presale code" that ought to have allowed them to purchase their seats three days in advance and then failed to get tickets. Michael Murray has seen the band 62 times and fancied making it 63. "When it was announced that they were to tour this year, they introduced an official website that promised 'guaranteed tickets for one concert on the tour' if you paid a membership fee of $40," he writes. He did so, and in return received his code and advance access to the Ticketmaster site on Tuesday, three days before they went on sale to the general public.  "Tuesday, 10am - and I have taken time off work to be able to do this - I try to log on to the site," writes Murray. "The whole day, in fact, is spent trying to log on to the site. Every attempt fails." It was the same story on Wednesday and Thursday. "Today, I can buy tickets, if I am prepared to purchase them at two to three times their face value at the tout websites ... Although they claim that there are many reasons to join U2.com, the only reason I and no doubt thousands of   others did so was the promise of a guaranteed ticket. Surely, since they have failed to deliver this promise, I should be entitled to a full refund?"   The official website does indeed promise that a subscription "gives you much more than access to the presale, not least the fact that you can watch on demand every video the band have made and listen to every track on every album" - possibly not the kind of benefits the 62-time concertgoer needs to pay another $40 for. Murray had tried emailing the fan site, but received only standard answers; Consumer, unfortunately, has little more success after going direct to Ticketmaster. At first, the company's spokeswoman says she is "unable to comment on an individual consumer query" - despite the fact that the problem has clearly affected many more fans than Murray; news sites in the US have reported the same technical hiccups that gave would-be purchasers only "unable to proceed" messages.  Further probing yields only the same formulaic responses sent to Murray and presumably many others: demand for tickets has been "phenomenal"; the "issues"   experienced by fans who could not log on during the presale are being looked into; the band will be playing more shows in North America, for which unused access codes will be valid (scant consolation for UK fans, we fear). "This is our only statement regarding the presale for U2.com fan club members," the spokeswoman concludes.  All rather frustrating, but Ticketmaster will not be moved. Fortunately for Murray and others clutching six-digit codes and no tickets, the tour promoters have subsequently announced on    U2.com that disappointed fans will be able to apply for a refund, adding: "We are sorry if we inadvertently gave the impression that the $40 subscription guaranteed you the tickets of your choice." A caution, then: as such fan subscription sites become more popular (and $40 seems to be a fairly standard sign-up), it is worth checking exactly what bonuses you get for your dollar.      Bandwidth bandits  Just to prove that Consumer never rests, some updates from past weeks.   At the beginning of the year, we attempted to fix reader Leigh Wilson's broadband difficulties - Wilson had upgraded a 128k connection to 512k, only to find the computer running at any speed between 19k and 150k. Tiscali, the provider in question, investigated and diagnosed a virus. All was now well ... or so we thought.  Almost a month later, Wilson's service is still not up to scratch: "My computer was well protected and had no viruses, so why Tiscali insist that they helped me clean up my computer, I do not know. Tiscali only went through my computer after I wrote to the Guardian, and even then they found nothing that could cause problems. It is not a virus problem and never has been."  Back, once again, to Tiscali, where further burrowing yields a new response. A technical support person was dispatched to talk to Wilson directly and did, indeed, observe the speed dropping. Now, it seems, they may have the answer.  "Broadband is a 'contended' service - this means you share bandwidth with other users in your area," says a spokeswoman. "Following our observations and further investigation, we can see that one other user in Mr Wilson's vicinity is using up to 58% of the bandwidth at times, which is obviously affecting other users, including Mr Wilson. This is something we are addressing with this individual customer to moderate their use. We have a fair usage policy, which means we will restrict very heavy downloading at busy times if it is affecting other users." Nifty broadband may now be in sight: Wilson is being upgraded to a 1MB connection - "but at the moment it's still sporadic".     Avoidable delays  Sometimes the promise of "further investigation" from companies does not mean "consigned to the dustbin". Expedia gets back in touch with Consumer after reader Jo Richardson found herself shunted between the website and Alitalia in a year-long effort to claim a refund on a double-booked (due to an online hitch) flight. Richardson's money was put back on her card last month after she wrote to these pages, and "further investigation" was pledged.  After Richardson's query was published, Expedia did a bit more digging. The problem, it turns out, was that normal procedures for getting authorisation for the refund from the airline were not carried out in the normal time-frame, hence Richardson's epic wait. By way of extra apology, Expedia is also to offer her £100 compensation. · Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your full address and phone number.