 The phone company that doesn't want to talk To judge by the amount of yabbering that goes on all around, the recent report by the National Radiological Protection Board, recommending that children under eight should not use mobile phones and that the use of phones by under-14s should be restricted for safety reasons, doesn't seem to have put much of a dent in our passion for handsets (or its nice-little-earner spinoff industry, the ringtone download, of which more soon - readers' comments welcome). However, in that same report, by a former scientific adviser to the government, Professor William Stewart, was a call for more information to be made available to customers about specific energy absorption rates (SAR), which indicate how much energy is absorbed from handsets by the body. Peter Smith, from Whaley Bridge, was already in the know about SAR. He had picked up a Department of Health leaflet from a local Virgin mobile store and was interested to read that: "From 2001, there will be a European standard method for measuring the SAR. This information will be provided for each model of mobile phone sold in the UK . . . Users may wish to take account of these SAR values when choosing a phone."  Smith certainly did. He writes: "My wife is concerned about radiation levels and wanted a phone with a low SAR." So, off he went to the Sheffield O2 store to choose his phone.   "However," he adds, "the assistant and his manager told me they could not give me the SAR ratings for any of their phones and would not be able to obtain such information for me."  Emails to O2 customer services yielded only vows that "mobile phones are designed to operate within limits that have been set to ensure that public exposure is well within accepted safety levels". All very well, but if all phones now have a SAR value, why can this information not be made available to customers needing that extra bit of reassurance?  When Smith persisted with this question, he was told, via email, that his best bet was to visit a different O2 store. After a few more exchanges in this vein, Smith requested that his query be passed further up the O2 chain of command - only to be told this could not be done without him supplying his full address, date of birth, username, email address . . . and the specific model he wanted the SAR for. His reply expressing disbelief that all this should be necessary simply to establish company policy on making such information on SAR available in stores prompted the same standard spiel on mobile safety that he received in response to his initial email. "I am still trying to get an answer from them, but I am not optimistic," he writes.  - Well, now Consumer is trying too, with rather swifter results. It turns out that, following an earlier   report by Professor Stewart, in 2000, mobile manufacturers did agree to publish SAR values in handbooks and on websites. While there is no compulsion to produce, for example, leaflets with this information in store, O2 concedes that more could have been done by staff to guide Smith in making his choice.  A spokesman says: "We do not have a list that readily compares the SAR ratings of each phone but we should have pointed Mr Smith towards the website, run by the Mobile Manufacturers Forum, which lists SAR values (www.mmfai.info/public/sar.cfm). We apologise for not advising Mr Smith correctly and are rebriefing our staff accordingly."  In the meantime, says Smith, concerned customers might like to try Carphone Warehouse, where SAR values for all models sold are listed in the in-store brochure. Unbalanced books  Another reader having difficulty prising information out of a company is John Presland, who writes from Warsaw. As a regular - and until now satisfied - customer of Amazon UK, he was surprised to find that delivery charges to the new EU member countries (Poland among them) were higher than those to older members.  "Royal Mail charges for delivery to Warsaw are the same as for Berlin, and the city where I live is closer to London   than several other capitals to which [Amazon] apply western Europe rather than rest-of-the-world rates," Presland writes. His first email to Amazon customer services, in August 2004, requesting a clarification of this policy, prompted a reply seemingly cut-and-pasted from the company handbook: "Feedback like yours helps us to make decisions about how our delivery procedures develop over the course of time, and it is important for us to hear how customers react to all aspects of our service."  Further inquiries elicited similar responses, all valuing his feedback but neglecting to answer his question he was asking. Finally, in October and again in November, Presland tried contacting the company by more conventional means - registered post - but is yet to receive a reply. No jokes about delivery problems from Poland, please.  - Amazon has proved difficult to budge, remaining adamant that Warsaw is too far away to qualify for lower delivery costs. A spokeswoman says: "Amazon.co.uk does not discriminate in its delivery charges for the new EU countries. We will continue to look at our rates for the new EU countries, but we don't comment on future plans." Delivery rates, she explains, are calculated not on the actual costs of sending the product - which would involve totting up the price by specific distance    and the weight of the items - but by more general criteria, which group destinations into regions and purchases into types. All very technical stuff. But Consumer can't help but notice that while all 15 of the pre-2004 member states slot comfortably into the "western Europe" delivery block, the 10 newcomers are all classed as "rest of the world". So, Austria is west, and the Czech Republic is not. And Presland "will put myself to the inconvenience of finding other sources of supply". Thinking outside the box  Following last week's focus on the pursuit of telly-less readers by TV Licensing, John Gansler writes to point out that TVL's dedication to cutting the 5.7% "evasion rate" might be better served by deleting nonexistent (and presumably also TV-free) properties from its database. The block of flats he lives in is numbered up to 18. "This," he writes, "has not prevented TV Licensing from sending a stream of threatening communications to an imaginary flat 19. I have informed TV Licensing of their mistake at least half a dozen times, but no one takes any notice." Proof, then, that even if you do not exist, you cannot escape the threat of a £1,000 fine. · Write to us at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk