Follow @SharonFGrigsby
No surprise that President Obama's unexpected remarks Friday about the Zimmerman case have been interpreted in wildly differing ways by those columnists who stuck around Friday afternoon and over the weekend to write on the topic. Here's a selection of the points of view I considered for our Monday op/ed page:Chicago Tribune columnist John Kass' column (Obama plays the race card like a maestro) ... Kass colleague and columnist Clarence Page's remarks (who lauded Obama  for speaking out in his role as our first African-American president) ... New York Times columnist Charles Blow described it as President Obama picking at America's racial wound ... Washington Post columnist Eugene Robinson, who may have been most surprised of all by the president's decision to speak out. Robinson had just published a column explaining why Obama was best-served to NOT lead the discussion! (His syndicate sent an updated version that included the Obama remarks.) ... The Root special correspondent Keli Goff saw Friday's speech like this.In addition, our own Jim Mitchell blogged on the remarks shortly after the president spoke Friday. And for my part, I thought President Obama adroitly navigated the fine line between not undercutting the jury's decision but trying to help all of America better understand the wound that so many African-Americans feel in the aftermath of the George Zimmerman acquittal. And, more subtly, he challenged us all to look at our own racial attitudes and profiling. He said:"Am I wringing as much bias out of myself as I can?  Am I judging people as much as I can based on not the color of their skin, but the content of their character? That would, I think, be an appropriate exercise in the wake of this tragedy."In case you wonder what I selected for our print page, it's John Dickerson's Slate piece because, while certainly complimentary of the president, it seemed the most even-handed analysis. When I only have space for one column on a topic, chances are pretty good that I'll go with the piece that I think sheds "the most light, as opposed to the most heat." (Heat works better for pro/con presentations.)Coincidentally, Gerald Britt, vice president of public policy at City Square, a regular columnist on our op/ed page and Change the Wind blogger, spoke at our church today. He was scheduled many weeks ago to speak today as part of a "Hot Topics, Cool Speakers" series — and did someone stumble into some perfect timing on a "hot topic." Like President Obama, Gerald is respectful of the jury's decision. But he spoke poignantly about whether "we want a society that is legal or a society that is just."Our editorial after the Zimmerman acquittal touched on the difference between legal and just. Probably the first best step for us all in trying to get to a better place is acknowledging that we don't even know what we don't know about other people's experiences.