 One wrong move and the client pays, twice The Christmas holiday is one of the few occasions when it is considered sensible - part of the festivities, even - to travel vast distances via slow-moving motorways, in a car overloaded with belongings. The rest of the time, however, it is considered more sensible and less stressful to hire someone to do that for you. You might think that removal firms exist for this purpose. But you might be wrong. Pam Morris and Colin Slaughter arranged with Pickfords to move a small load of furniture from their home in Liverpool to their daughter in London. Their problems began when the van turned up, on July 20, with no delivery papers or packing material (the crew did, however, know about a separate load that was being heaved to Glasgow). The load was taken to the Preston warehouse, where, the couple was promised, the correct documentation would be put in place.  Then ... silence for three weeks, after which Morris and Slaughter began a series of increasingly frustrating phone calls: "We were told variously that it was in London, at Chester, and still at Preston ... nobody ever phoned us back, despite the fact that a load of furniture had apparently gone missing." A break through came with news that the delivery had been sent to Enfield - but a phone call to that depot revealed Enfield knew nothing about it. The furniture was finally located in Hayes, and turned up at the correct address in London on August 28.  Reason enough to get in touch with Consumer. But the icing on this, er, packing box was yet to come. Promised that, due to this not particularly funny comedy of errors, no charge would be made for the move, the couple were irritated to find that the full fee of £333 was deducted from their credit card. Phoning to complain, they were promised a refund - only to see the amount swiped again. Given the difficulty in locating a load of furniture, Morris and Slaughter are starting to despair of ever retrieving their £666.  After Consumer hits the phone to relay this sorry tale, Pickfords gets moving (ahem) pretty quickly. "It is regrettable that Ms Morris and Mr Slaughter received a less than satisfactory level of service during their move, which must have added a great deal of anxiety during a very stressful time," says a spokeswoman. She admits that the couple should have had the charges waived in August - instead a debit was made "in error" and "unfortunately the error was made twice".The company promises an investigation. And, at last, the couple's credit card is to be recredited and a letter of apology is on its way - hopefully not via Chester, Enfield or Hayes. Wanadoo pulls the plug on broadband account Another reader suffering over-payment problems is Stuart Bell, of Altrincham, Cheshire. He signed up for Wanadoo broadband at the start of August, paying for the first two months instore at Curry's, which he thought would make the process easier. Needless to say, he was mistaken. A direct debit he set up with Wanadoo began collecting money from day one, despite Bell's protestations that he had already paid. In the end, he says, "I cancelled the direct debit because they were not listening."  Initially, the effect was positive. Calls and correspondence led to offers of a free month's service, later raised to three; plus refunds of the incorrect charges taken from Bell's credit card and bank account. But none materialised. In mid-November, Wanadoo decided enough was enough - and terminated Bell's broadband agreement, even though it admitted he was in credit £42.99.  "When I telephoned the support centre, I was told by an adviser that [Wanadoo] had terminated the contract because I had not paid for the months of October and November, which I have, and that I owed £35.98. She also stated that, at the same time, my account showed £7.01 owing to me! I fail to see how they could possibly terminate my contract for non-payment when there is a credit balance on my account."  Wanadoo takes a while to pick through the complications of this saga. But, once unpicked, it becomes much easier - Bell's account is, as he claimed, in credit, and he is to have his money back. Part of the delay, says a spokeswoman, is down to the fact that Bell had requested a refund by cheque, which proved difficult to arrange. But the technical hitches have now been surmounted, and a cheque for £42.99 (the sum wrongly taken), plus a goodwill gesture of £53, the equivalent of that much-mooted three months' free service, is promised imminently.  Taking that previous offer of free service into account, Bell had intended to resume his direct debit with Wanadoo in March. He now plans to look for another broadband provider. But, in one of those sweet ironies we at Consumer love, Bell received a "courtesy call" from a Wanadoo customer services adviser just   last week. She was ringing to make sure his service was up to scratch, Bell relates. No, she hadn't checked his history with Wanadoo before calling, and no, she couldn't resolve issues over the phone - but she would put a note on the account.  As an aside to others who find their accounts dipped into wrongly by overenthusiastic companies, it is worth knowing about the direct debit guarantee. All banks and building societies that offer direct debit have signed up to this pledge, which promises: "If an error is made by the organisation or your bank or building society, you are guaranteed a full and immediate refund from your branch of the amount paid."      Missed messages leave business hanging  Susan Meredith writes from Hawick with a plea to be put back in touch with her customers. Running her own business, she relies on her Onetel voicemail service to scoop up messages when she is out. She discovered a couple of weeks ago that certain messages were not being stored. Meredith rang to complain and was assured someone would get back to her within 48 hours - within which time she realised "with horror that my voicemail had been barred 'for security reasons' and I could not access my own voicemail".  Inconvenient enough not to receive a message telling you the Christmas party dress code has changed -   worse when your business relies on it. "People have not shown up for appointments as they left messages days before, which of course I haven't received," says Meredith.  The problem has been "noted" by Onetel's customer services team, but every time Meredith rings she is told that rectifying the fault will take four working days. (That's four working days from the most recent call, not from the original complaint.) Meredith wants her service restored, preferably with the messages that have been deposited in the meantime safely tucked within it.  Happily, the four-working-day proviso disappears when Consumer steps in - Meredith's voicemail bar is lifted in a flash and her messages made available to her. It transpires that the wrong pin number was used in attempting to access the voicemail remotely, something that triggers an automatic bar for security reasons, says Onetel, and something that should, in normal circumstances, be easily resolved. In this case, Meredith's problem was not passed on to anyone with the technical know-how to deal with it, an oversight to which Onetel holds up its hands. The customer services operation will be "looked into", it says.· Write to us at119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include full address and phone number.