Follow @SharonFGrigsby
So as my concerns about abortion grow, how do I respond to my previous long-held stand that, yes, abortion involves the destruction of life but is the alternative — unwanted and/or poorly cared for children — better?I wholeheartedly agree that Texas is terrible when it comes to providing the financial safety nets to support its young children in need. Tod Robberson made that case here:It is supremely irresponsible for this Legislature to force women to have babies under these circumstances while systematically yanking away the support network that would help improve the quality of life for their children.So here's my answer, both to "my former self" and to Tod's well-argued points: It's critical that all of us bring the kind of passion and public pressure to the legislative debates surrounding social/financial safety nets for the poor that was visible during the abortion bill. That means those who supported the bill — and those who packed the Capitol in opposition. And that includes those like me, who are still trying to sort out our feelings. Will we show up with the same fervor -  on the editorial page, in the gallery or with our checkbook — when the debate is not about "our bodies, our rules"? If we don't, aren't we just a bunch of hypocrites?We need to all take a hard look at whether we are working as hard and effectively as we can to restore financial safety nets for our state's needy. My experiences — both in places of worship locally and in social-services settings — indicate that a lot is being done to help, for example, single mothers. And yes, that includes some of the city's most conservative churches. But of course more needs to be done.So what if we were to agree that there's a lot of middle ground for the "my body, my rules" and the "it's murder" sides — plus all the rest of us — to "storm the rotunda" in an effort to restore safety net funding. Likewise, I'd challenge us all to get involved, whether through donations or helping hands, to help lift up those women and children in need.As I said yesterday I believe that the less we get hung up on absolutes in the abortion debate, the better. On one hand, yes, I believe there are exceptions that will always deserve to be carved out in any abortion restrictions. On the other hand, no, I don't believe that our state's terrible track record on social services means there's no room for reasonable abortion restrictions.Melinda Henneberger, a former colleague of mine at TDMN when we were both single twentysomethings, is now an amazing columnist at The Washington Post. While I focused my column yesterday on my personal feelings, this column by Melinda has a lot of careful research (as well as opinion) in it that speaks strongly to the issues I'm raising. I'd encourage everyone to read it.There's much more to say on this topic. For every "this," there's a "that." And it's so much easier for people who feel strongly to go "black or white" on the issue. For my part, I'm trying to speak publicly for myself and for the views of many who I am well aware are equally conflicted. Thanks, Rodger, for your response. And thanks to all the readers who commented thoughtfully on my original post.To be continued ... 