 Children pay adult prices for holiday triple bill 
It's the end of the year, it's dark and it's cold - what better time to think about next year's holiday in the sun? Despite all those heralds who confidently proclaim the end of advance booking and tour operators, as we all flock to the internet to fix up our flights half an hour before take off, many of us still choose to plan ahead. The problem is that many people - especially those with school term dates to contend with - find themselves needing a holiday to dilute the stresses caused by organising a family break. Alison Wightman, of Harpenden, booked a week's holiday with Airtours in the Canary Islands for next February's half-term school break, for herself, her husband and her 16-year-old daughter. Having been informed that, for this package, the child rate would be the same as the adult price, Wightman was irritated to discover that there were other penalties: "To add insult to injury, we are being charged an under-occupancy supplement of £120 because there will only be two "adults" in a three-bed apartment. In other words, had we been three adults, we would have been charged the same basic rate for the holiday, but would be £120 better off.  "I thought travel operators generally charged less for children than for adults. I can understand them seizing the opportunity not to offer reductions at times of particularly high demand - but in effect charging more?"   Over to Airtours, where a bit of digging through the holiday rotas reveals that Wightman's booking was made via an external call centre. The problem turns out to have been caused by a flaw in the computer booking program: when a reservation is made for a child, the under-occupancy penalty is automatically whacked on top, even if the child holidaymaker doesn't qualify for a child fare. The nonsense of this wasn't spotted by the agent who made the booking, so the Wightmans ended up with a potentially costly daughter.  While it is not uncommon for adult and child prices to be the same, depending on the type of property and time of year, a spokeswoman for Airtours explains, in these circumstances an under-occupancy supplement should not have been charged.  Wightman has been refunded £120, which will make for some extra spending money, no doubt. But, as she points out: "It's just a shame your intervention was necessary - I had phoned the company three times myself without any success."      Wires crossed in electrical switch 
Another reader having difficulty conveying her complaint to the powers that be is Rosalind Boyce from Lincoln. Prior to moving house in April, Boyce had been a happy customer of NPower, so decided to continue getting her electricity from the company in her new home. This home, however, was plugged in to Powergen. Not a problem, she was told by all sides. Wait four weeks, after which NPower would ring for the meter readings, pass them to Powergen - which would bill Boyce for her month of electricity - and switch her over. "What could be simpler?" she writes.  The intervening six months have presumably given Boyce plenty of time to think of simpler things, as she waited for NPower and Powergen to settle what should have been a straightforward handover. First, she received a bill from Powergen for £321 - a hefty sum for just four weeks. Having pointed out to both companies that the meter reading on the bill bore no relation to the one she had passed on to NPower, Boyce was promised a speedy solution. Instead, she got letters threatening the involvement of a debt collection agency. Understandably flustered, Boyce paid £100 after assurance from Powergen that the difference between this and the real amount owed would be refunded. Moreover, she was told, NPower had now winged over the correct details, the debt would be cancelled, and a refund would soon be on its way.  A month later, however, Boyce is still waiting for her refund and Powergen is still waiting for that meter reading from NPower.   Powergen puts its hands up - an incorrect bill was indeed issued to Boyce, it admits. That £321 was too high, a spokeswoman says, but it was based on the readings given to Powergen by NPower. Over to NPower, then, where it gets more complicated. Switching suppliers, it seems, is not a simple case of one telling the other the news. In this instance, Boyce's billing details were sent through the disputed readings process, which involves both suppliers, plus the meter operator. Somewhere along the line, the readings went awry. As far as NPower is concerned, it had the correct figures and thought the matter was settled months ago; it is not thrilled, a spokeswoman points out, to discover that a customer had such a hard time switching.  Powergen has now accepted revised readings for May and, after some careful figure-twiddling, has realised it needs to refund Boyce £85.99. Her account with the company will be closed and a final statement issued, so no testy demands for further payment should find their way to her letterbox. Boyce, though puzzled to find Powergen's version of the meter readings is still not quite what she told NPower, is happy at the resolution - and, bravely, she says she will stick with NPower for now.      Samsung corrects its PC promise 
"Now you can combine your requirements for a TV and computer monitor into one unit. This exciting product range allows you to either watch TV or work on your PC using the same display." So says the blurb on the Samsung website for its range of LCD TVs. This was enough to convince Alison Kingsley of Stratford-upon-Avon that the 20in Samsung LCD TV she bought from Dixons would be compatible with her PC. "However," she writes, "it proved to be far too low resolution for anything but the crudest PC use."  Emails to Samsung customer services went unanswered and phone advisers proved equally unhelpful - until she got through to one friendly soul who told her the product "was not suitable for PC use and was really just a TV". Bad news for customers looking to "combine their requirements for a TV and computer monitor".   A call to Samsung yields the answer that the model in question is indeed "primarily a TV and is only suitable for limited PC use", though it says there are others in the range that can work for both. The "service" Kingsley received when trying to find this out was, a spokeswoman insists, "not representative of the service level normally delivered", though the advice she was eventually given - that it was not suitable as a computer monitor - was correct.  In the meantime, help was at hand from Dixons. The Stratford-upon-Avon store agreed to take back Kingsley's non-PC television and refund her money, even though it was outside the usual 28-day period.
· Write to us at119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and phone number.