The sad tale of the vanishing suitcase It is that time of year when the nights are closing in, memories of summer are fading, the holiday snaps are curling at the edges ... and your luggage has yet to return from its overseas jaunt. Stuart Murray, from Perthshire, had little reason to fear that his bag would go astray on the short and straightforward hop from Dublin to Edinburgh at the end of August. But disappear it did, and with it, seemingly, so did Aer Lingus's customer services. "I tried phoning the airline's customer relations department, but all I got was a recorded message saying all claims must be sent in writing to Dublin," says Murray. "I have now tried that, twice, and here, it seems is the catch. You can write to them, but don't expect them to write back." After sending details of the contents lost and the cost of replacing them - including a £99 pair of boots - and even for a brief while pondering a visit in person to the elusive customer relations office in Dublin, Murray turned to Consumer instead: "If it exists at all, I picture customer relations as a dead-letter box, visited occasionally by a rubbish collector with a paper shredder."   · Not so, says Aer Lingus, which has swung into action. It has no record of Murray's first letter of complaint, posted at the beginning of September, although the second -    sent on October 6 - is certainly on file. The airline has now, rather belatedly, written to Murray, with the promise of a cheque for £164 to cover his lost bag and belongings to follow within days. The luggage itself, alas, seems to have vanished somewhere over the Irish sea; Aer Lingus will continue its attempts to trace it, but admits it is unlikely to materialise.     When a booking with bmi is not a booking Marion Gough and family, from Walton-on-Thames, nearly did not make it on to their flight at all, having - not altogether foolishly, you might think - assumed that the email from bmi stating that "your booking is confirmed ... you don't need to do anything else" meant precisely that. Seems not. When the group of five, including a small baby, arrived at Heathrow in September for their trip to Majorca, the Goughs discovered there were no tickets waiting for them at check-in as expected.  After "about a dozen" calls to various departments by the check-in clerk, they were told they would have to trudge to the other end of the terminal to pay for their tickets all over again, before (somewhat frustratedly, by this point) making their way back to check-in. Luckily, and it's not often you will catch Consumer saying this, the flight was delayed. "Had it not been, it is unlikely that we would have caught it," says Marion Gough. "Why did we receive booking confirmation if there was a problem about payment? And why send a 'welcome to flybmi.com' email a few days before the flight if you are going to cause us all this aggravation at the airport?"   · The wonderful world of online booking does have its flaws, it appears. An automated email was indeed pinged off to Gough to confirm her booking, bmi admits, but her tickets could not be sent out as expected because the wrong issue number had been given for the Switch card she used. This meant staff at the airport had to resort to old-fashioned card-swiping to put the payment through correctly.  The "relevant bmi management" has been informed of the Goughs' stresses, says a spokesperson, and a letter of apology (in response to the original complaint filed way back in September) has now been sent. But the question of whether a confirmation-of-booking email actually means your booking is confirmed remains one to philosophise over.      Paying the penalty for not checking a receipt Now, Consumer is a bit wary of complaints about the inner London congestion charge: you want to drive, you hand over the fiver, say we. But Peter Gould, of Halifax, did pay his dues, in a Mayfair shop on June 30 last year, and has the receipt to prove it. Unfortunately, said receipt shows a registration number one digit different from his own. And there his problems began.  He was, not surprisingly, issued with a penalty charge notice (PCN) a day later, when Transport for London (TfL) computers picked up on his car seemingly evading the charge. Gould sent a copy of his receipt and original application slip - showing the two versions of his registration number - hoping this would resolve matters. The response was another PCN. After a good few months of wrangling, Gould was contacted by the Parking and Traffic Appeals Service (PTAS) in April this year, which informed him of his right to appeal. This letter, however, featured a third, and still wrong, variant on that tricksy registration number.  Various missives then sped from one side to the other, resembling, according to Gould, "a farce of gigantic proportions". Finally, the PTAS acknowledged the "clerical error" in its earlier correspondence, but insisted on rejecting his appeal none the less, as "payment was not duly made in accordance with the requirements of the charging scheme".  · It is out of our hands, pleads a spokesman for TfL. Once a ruling has been made in its favour by PTAS, TfL has no choice but to pursue the payment, being publicly accountable and all that. It advises Gould to pay the fine promptly, before taking it up with PTAS directly. Off to PTAS then, where another helpful spokesman tells us that if there has been an administrative error, Gould can certainly ask for a review of the decision to persist with the fine.  Normally, this request must take place within 14 days of the appeal being turned down, but if - as seems to be the case here - details of the review procedure were not included with the letter informing Gould that his case had been unsuccessful, that rule can be bent a little (even statutory procedures have their flexible moments). Gould must submit a claim in writing to the PTAS adjudicator, who might at last be able to bring an end to the saga.      Pure Digital is tuned in to turn on its customers And now the bit that tries to convince you that companies are not all out to get you. Larry Johnson, from Coventry, forwards a startling exchange of emails he had with Pure Digital.  On Tuesday at 10.50am, Johnson emails the company to say his out-of-warranty digital radio has a faulty transformer. At 10.52, someone from technical support replies, requesting his address to send a replacement. By 10.55 (yes, still Tuesday, still am) Johnson is told the new transformer is on its way. By 10am the following day, the replacement part has been received, installed and put to good use in the background as Johnson sets about emailing Consumer the happy tale. · Write to us at119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us at consumer@guardian.co.uk