Follow @SharonFGrigsby

Here's the DMN summary of Austin's most recent attempt to regulate the payday loan industry in Texas, a legislative effort that the Editorial Board has strongly backed as part of our "Bridging Dallas' North-South Gap" effort:The billion-dollar Texas industry fought regulations with an army of well-paid lobbyists and generous campaign contributions. They succeeded: Texas remains virtually the only state without major restrictions on the short-term credit industry.We lost. Big time. And now I'm wondering whether the free-enterprise sector may be our best hope for beating the free-enterprise payday loan guys. (More on that in a minute.)I'm thinking about this as colleague Bill McKenzie is working on an editorial sketching out where to go from here on this issue. I expect we'll press leaders Dewhurst and Straus to create interim legislative committees as a start. Our "budget line" for the editorial says: The purpose of the interim committee is to either develop a bill with appropriate consumer protections that invites industry support (unlikely) or to provide members with enough research in support of such a bill that lawmakers next session can withstand the sort of industry pressure they caved to this last session.Like all good Editorial Boards, we make decisions on what to advocate for based on what we think is right and just — regardless of our chances of notching a win. We don't shy from fights even when the odds are hugely stacked against us — or more to the point in this case, stacked against the people whom we are trying to help with better regulation of payday loan operations.This DMN news article tells you exactly how long our odds were on this particular legislative fight. Even on my most optimistic day, I wouldn't have bet $1 on our chances after reading that story. Here's roughly how the payday-regulations-go-to-Austin chronology went:Sen. John Carona offered up a good bill, but then those pesky lobbyists get involved:Sen. John Carona, R-Dallas, had to pull down his bill from consideration by the full Senate on Thursday after some senators started rescinding their pledges of support. They started flaking when they recognized Carona was going to push pro-consumer amendments to his bill and the senators would be on record voting for the payday lending industry or consumers.Carona came back with a more delicately balanced bill, one that I personally didn't think was worth supporting (and dubbed "payday lite" by DMN Austin Bureau Chief Christy Hoppe). Here's how CitySquare vice president Gerald Britt described the recrafted bill.During the debate over "payday lite" Democrats started adding consumer protections back in and were able to pass out of the Senate a much tougher, better bill.And just as Carona warned, it was also a bill that didn't have a snowball's chance in hell of passing the House. Sure enough, the bill died, despite efforts to revive "payday lite."I actually was just as glad to see that "lite" bill die because it effectively ate into some of the municipal regulations that cities such as Dallas have put in place. However, word is that those municipal regs aren't much enforced.OK, back to free enterprise. The payday loan folks are right when they contend that no one forces people to take out loans with them. But the fact is that so often the people who do take out these loans do so because they have no other options. But what if they did? What if Wal-Mart got into the game? Matthew Yglesias has a fascinating idea over on Slate's Moneybox (thanks to colleague Nicole Stockdale for calling this to my attention). Just as, Yglesias points out, Wal-Mart offers better terms for check cashing because its desire is to get people through the doors, why not extend their services to short-term loans? Again, without some of the onerous practices that can include 500 percent interest rates, fees and loopholes that trap borrowers into an endless obligation.Wal-Mart seems to have mastered everything from tax preparation to eyeglass prescriptions — why not short-term loans too?