
	Call this one a WIN-win on Mother's Day.
	Jamila was waiting tables at Applebee's on the Flatbush Ave. Extension to support her four kids in a Brownsville apartment that she shared with her asthmatic mother when the landlord raised her monthly rent to $1,350. She struggled to come up with the money.
	"That was in 2012," says Jamila, now 31. "And I just couldn't pay it. I couldn't really afford the $1,350. Waitressing is hard because it all depends on tips. The only public assistance I was on was food stamps, but I worked to pay the bills. But they piled up."
	The rent increase pulled the cornerstone from her permanent home. "I was evicted in September 2012 and I had a conversation with my children I'll never forget," Jamila said. "Telling them that our family no longer had a home. That we were going into the shelter system. That was hard. Heartbreaking. The younger ones saw it as a new adventure. But my two older ones, 11 and 13, were really upset."
	When Jamila arrived at the Prevention and Temporary Housing intake center on W. 151st St. in the Bronx, good fortune placed her family in a Brownsville shelter, one of several run by a terrific not-for-profit organization called Women In Need.
	"The worst part was that my mother was separated from us in a women's shelter," Jamila says. "The kids were very upset because they had lived with their grandmother all their lives."
	At the shelter run by WIN — an organization that shelters 3,200 homeless mothers and children in a city with 52,000 homeless, 20,000 of whom are children — Jamila was pleasantly surprised.
	"We have a unit of our own," she says. "We share a bathroom but we're still together. As a family. WIN has made a huge difference in our lives because there is day care for the kids. There are after-school activities and tutoring programs, a WIN summer camp. There are computers and caring caseworkers that help mothers with job training and employment searching and a transition into permanent housing. I began taking classes to become an alcohol and substance abuse counselor."
	While studying, Jamila took a temporary winter job at Macy's. This summer, she will work in Luna Park at Coney Island.
	"I'm working with WIN caseworkers on finding a permanent full-time counseling job, which can lead to a permanent home," she says.
	She says WIN has also been terrific with the kids. "My oldest son is in a Nike basketball tournament," Jamila says. "My daughter's school team won second place in a robotics contest for building a robot from scratch. My younger kids are excelling in school. I could have been bounced around. But the whole WIN experience has actually made our family closer, tighter."
	Bonnie Stone, president and CEO of WIN, says the horror stories we hear about life in homeless shelters are the exceptions. "Most shelters are not terrible," she claims. "WIN is the tops of the shelter system, but most are really pretty good. And, yes, there are some real horror stories that shock the public."
	What shocked Stone, after a career in the social services of city and state government, before being recruited by WIN 15 years ago, was that three years ago the Advantage rent subsidy program was eliminated.
	"That left the homeless of New York City for the first time without rent subsidies at a time when rents skyrocketed and affordable apartments were scarcer with a population increase of 11/2 million," she says. "Cuomo and Bloomberg fought over Advantage and it was just shockingly cut without being resolved."
	That swelled the shelter system to record numbers, especially women with children, many of them the working poor like Jamila.
	"The other night, WIN had a fund-raiser in the Waldorf Astoria where they raised $3 million," says Jamila. "They took me shopping, fed me a beautiful meal and let me tell my story in front of 1,000 people. That's what my kids have learned from WIN. That you can hit bottom but work your own way out. That's the one lesson my kids will take from this experience. No obstacle in life is too big to overcome."
	Bonnie Stone is also optimistic.
	"Mayor de Blasio has every intention of restoring the subsidy," she says. "We're waiting to see how he resolves it with Gov. Cuomo. The sad part is that about 18% to 20% of the homeless mothers in city shelters were working poor, just not earning enough to pay these crazy, new rents."
	On Mother's Day, Jamila says she will visit her mother and surround herself with her kids.
	"My kids know I won't rest until I have a full-time job and a permanent home," Jamila says.
	"That dream is all I need for Mother's Day."