
	I went to the World's Fair in 1964 back when I was in the eighth grade.
	I was with my schoolmates Kevin Burns, Robert (Bab) Carley and Peter Auletta. We were told we could disperse into groups of four and gather at the Unisphere at lunch.
	Two months before graduation, we dreamed of the thrilling future we had seen glimpses of in James Bond movies and "The Man from U.N.C.L.E.," sliding doors triggered by lapel badges, fountain pen pistols and videophones.
	So off we ran into the science-fiction future that April day a half-century ago searching for the tomorrows many of us wish we had never found.
	We beelined for the Ride into Tomorrow. My pal Burns, with a lazy left eye in which he was legally blind, had already hatched a scheme to jump the long lines. He made Bab start bawling at the back of the line that someone stole his wallet. When all heads turned in sympathy, the rest of us followed Burns to the top of the line.
	Then Burns shouted, "Hey, Bab, I found your wallet." Then Bab wiped his eyes and joined us on the next set of mobilized armchairs. That ride swept us into a simulated future where people inhabited the polar caps, the deepest jungles, outer space and the ocean floor.
	We saw exhibitions for color TVs, photo phones, faxes and computers that transported information through thin air.
	"I wanna see a real Dick Tracy wristwatch," Bab said.
	Peter Auletta was a quiet kid who had never quite recovered from his older brother being stabbed to death on a Brooklyn street. I was recovering from a near-fatal stab wound myself, inflicted on the night Cassius Clay beat Sonny Liston for the heavyweight title.
	It was that kind of Park Slope back then. The World's Fair offered us hope for a better tomorrow.
	After a few rides, we roamed the gift shop where Auletta changed price tags from $1 to 25 cents on overpriced, ripoff World's Fair trinkets.
	"Get heavy stuff, World's Fair ashtrays for the old man," Burns whispered. "Spoons and pen sets for the old lady."
	I thought about those "Burns bargains" every time I heard Archie Bunker tell Edith in a rerun that he wants his special "World's Fair spoon" to eat his Froot Loops.
	At one counter, they snapped your photo and mounted it on a faux parchment Wild West wanted poster after you wrote down your name and criminal charges. Then you paid your 50 cents and were told to collect it in an hour. I asked Burns for his info slip where he had listed himself as a train robber so I could see how to fill out mine. When I handed Burns back his slip, he turned it in with his 50 cents.
	We jumped the line for Disney's Small World and the General Motors ride, drooling over the red Ford Mustang which Burns called a "chick mobile," a giant leap from the buses we "hitched" to Coney Island. We checked out the Unisphere and the pretty Catholic school girls of Queens who rolled their skirts at the waist till the hems rose high above their knees when the nuns weren't around.
	Burns chatted up one cute girl, inviting her to the gift shop to give her his wanted poster. When he unscrolled his poster, his lazy eye had crossed in the photo flash and this notorious outlaw "nose picker" was named "Candy Buns." Exactly as I had retooled his info slip. The girl exploded laughing with her girlfriends.
	Then the laughter ended and the real tomorrows arrived. My first car was a red Ford Mustang and I use a computer to send information through thin air.
	Peter Auletta was killed in action in Vietnam.
	Although legally blind in one eye, Burns was drafted and sent to 'Nam. He came home to learn that Bab had died in a hit-and-run. Burns wound up as a homeless Vietnam vet on the streets of Oakland before a fellow vet steered him into the now defunct Comprehensive Employment and Training Act program and he went to college on the G.I. Bill and became a self-made millionaire realtor.
	On Sept. 11, 2001, Burns sent me a futuristic email from his luxury home in San Francisco asking if I could find any news about his unreachable sister Peggy, who worked as a Cantor Fitzgerald receptionist on the 103rd Floor of 1 World Trade Center.
	Even with DNA technology, Peggy's remains were never found.
	This was the future we skipped the line to see as World's Fair kids a half-century ago in April of 1964.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com