
	When he graduated from Touro Law Center he volunteered for combat. There were two reasons for that.
	"First, because of the discipline with which I was raised by my father who is a retired NYPD officer and lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army who met my South Vietnamese mother while serving in Vietnam and married her," says Retired U.S. Army Capt. James Van Thach, of Bellerose, Queens.
	"Second, because this country helped bring about 80 members of my mother's family to the U.S.A. after Vietnam fell under Communism. So I owed my country my service in the military."
	After graduating from Francis Lewis High School in 1994, Van Thach (pronounced Thok) went to St. John's University on an ROTC scholarship, graduated with a degree in history and enrolled in Touro Law Center.
	"After graduating from Touro, I could have become a JAG advocate general," he says, referring to a military lawyer. "But our country had been attacked and so I volunteered to serve in the infantry in combat to protect our nation."
	Van Thach was wounded the first time in Iraq in March 2006.
	"We were in a Hummer going to assess an IED that the Iraqi army had discovered on the road," he says.
	"Then our vehicle was blown 6 feet into the air by a different IED. We landed on all four tires."
	Van Thach suffered minor injuries to his brain, neck and back.
	In February 2007, Van Thach was walking with an Iraqi major across a base camp in Baghdad when they came under attack by Katyusha rockets.
	"One rocket landed 20 meters from us," he says.
	"The backdraft of the explosion slammed me to the ground, knocking me unconscious."
	Van Thach was taken to a military hospital with serious brain, neck, back and leg injuries. He would be awarded a Purple Heart and Bronze Star. His combat days were over.
	"They wanted to send me home but I looked around the hospital and there were brother and sister troops missing arms and legs," he says. "I was injured but I was not going to fly to Germany with people who were missing their limbs while I still had all mine. I asked to remain in Iraq. Army psychologists determined that I could remain serving in Iraq but only on desk duty."
	At the time, General David Petraeus was very concerned about Iranian Revolutionary Guards smuggling weapons into Iraq to be used against American troops.
	"I was already in charge of dispensing military supplies and equipment all over Iraq," he says. "Because I was a lawyer and understood contract law I was assigned to create a brand-new base."
	General Petraeus wanted a base to stop weapons smuggling, particularly by the dangerous Iranian Revolutionary Guard. He feared they would enter Iraq and move their weapons to Lebanon for use against Israel.
	After Van Thach completed the successful base camp, the Army gave him an award and Petraeus personally congratulated him. After 25 months in Iraq, Van Thach was sent home.
	In March 2009, he retired from the Army with a 100% disability pension, taking 20 pills a day for his brain and leg injuries and posttraumatic stress disorder. Walking with a cane, he adapted to civilian life with the help of a golden Labrador service dog named Liz in the Bellerose home of his parents who had met in the gunsmoke of another American war.
	But this combat vet was not yet finished with war zones.
	Last year, the Army flew Van Thach to Afghanistan to speak to some 1,500 American troops in various base camps.
	"Being back in a combat zone helped me bring closure to some of my own PTSD flashbacks," he says. "I had been speaking to veterans in VA hospitals in New York. I was alarmed about the high suicide rates amongst fellow vets. I told the troops that every soldier and every vet needs a PAL — passion, aspiration and a legacy. I told them to never be embarrassed, shy or ashamed of who you are and the service you gave to our country. That suicide is not an option. Help is there if you want it."
	Van Thach declines any money for his speaking engagements.
	"I tell the Army to put whatever money they were going to pay me into a war chest to help fellow veterans cope with life after serving in combat," he says. "That's my mission now."
	Thanks for your service, Capt. James Van Thach.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com