
	Victor, a baseball dad sitting next to me, asked, "Did you hear that racist rant by the owner of the Clippers?"
	I said I had, and that it didn't surprise me.
	But it startled the three white kids in the back of my van Sunday morning as we drove from Queens to Franklin Square, L.I., where they would play a double-header for the Bayside Bulldogs tournament baseball team.
	All three kids, who also play organized basketball and high school baseball, wanted to know details about the incident involving 80-year-old Donald Sterling.
	"This guy Sterling, who owns the Clippers, was berating his young girlfriend about bringing black people to his arena," Vic said. "He didn't know she was recording him."
	"Aren't most of the guys who play for him black?" asked Mike.
	"Yes, they are," Vic said.
	"How can he get away with that?" asked Liam.
	"He's gonna have a hard time with the NBA," I said. "But I don't know if they can force him to sell the team. But no one decent player will sign with him in the future."
	The kids fell silent for a few moments, letting the disturbing details sink in. These are kids who watched the movie "42," about Jackie Robinson, like it was a horror story from ancient history.
	"No one's ever allowed to use racist terms on any of our teams," said Nick.
	"I can't believe an owner might get away with it," said Liam.
	Sports, like the rest of American life, is filled with racists. Most of them come from a time and place when racism was tolerated. But if there is a silver lining in Sterling's vile rant, it is that there is true general shock and outrage amongst the next generation that will play on the teams and fill the stands of professional sports in 21st-century America.
	Kids playing ball today are taught true sportsmanship along with craft in an age of zero tolerance for racism from any player, parent, coach, umpire or league official. Anyone heard uttering a racist slur at a youth sports event is ejected from the game and usually from the venue.
	It's changing the way kids think and behave.
	My brother John, visiting from out West, recently eavesdropped on my son and his teenage friends talking amongst themselves. "What surprised me was the way they dissed certain people as uncool because they were racist," he said.
	He's right. Times have changed. Racism is uncool. News flash: We the people elected an African-American President.
	Twice.
	Sterling was raised in an age when blacks couldn't be combat soldiers, when only whites played most professional sports, when schools were officially segregated in the South.
	Sterling, the son of Jewish immigrants named Tokowitz, was born in Chicago and was a teenager when Robinson broke baseball's color line in 1947 as people called him every racial epithet imaginable from the dugouts, the field and the stands. Sterling was about 30 when the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson.
	Sterling's odious opinions about blacks, Mexicans and women were obviously formed before that, when being a bigot was still acceptable in America. Time, events and even a new century seem to have passed Sterling by. In 2006, the U.S. Department of Justice sued Sterling for racially discriminatory renting practices as a landlord.
	And yet the young mistress who taped the married Sterling as he berated her for posing for pictures with blacks and bringing blacks to his arena is part African-American.
	But as the real world passed him by, Sterling also forgot that almost every young person today carries a magical little box that takes photos, sends electronic messages and can record what people say.
	Donald Sterling got clipped by a young woman of color from the 21st century as he spewed a racist rant that hasn't been tolerated in America since the early 20th century.
	The good news is that his twisted thinking is unacceptable to our next generation.
	"He's sounds like an old racist jerk," said Liam.
	His teammates nodded in agreement on their way to play America's pasttime.