
	Maybe the press should dress as Minutemen.
	The sartorial police of Buckingham Palace have issued a royal edict instructing how journalists here across the pond must dress to be granted an audience with Prince Welfare-Artist and Princess Layabout of the Royal Family.
	That genteel bloodline that has given the world a legacy of smartly dressed imperialism, genocide, incest and quite possibly Jack the Ripper.
	The press release issued to the rumpled American press last week read: "Attire for journalists covering royal engagements: Journalists wishing to cover royal engagements, whether in the United Kingdom or abroad, should comply with the dress code on formal occasions out of respect for the guests of the queen, or any other member of the royal family. Smart attire for men includes the wearing of a jacket and tie and for women a trouser or skirt suit. Those wearing jeans or trainers will not be admitted and casually dressed members of the media will be turned away. This also applies to technicians."
	Ahem.
	As the son of Belfast Catholic republicans, I considered donning a jacket and tie to bow before the royal couple whose ancestors occupied, plundered and massacred my Celtic tribe for eight violent centuries of smartly dressed British tyranny.
	Better, I thought of dressing as the truly noble men of the Continental Army who followed Gen. George Washington into Valley Forge on Dec. 19, 1777, after the Brits had taken Philadelphia.
	Washington's army was on the verge of collapse, dressed in tatters, without winter coats, many shoeless.
	On Christmas Eve the troops ate only rice and vinegar, wrapping their frostbitten feet with rags.
	Then they marched on in the freezing winds, leaking blood trails in the unforgiving snows in pursuit of liberty.
	If an American journalist showed up dressed in their likeness next month here in New York City to cover the descendants of King George III, whose royal butt the Continentals kicked 237 years ago, he would be shown the door.
	OK, but here's the scoop: This is America.
	We won the Revolution fair and square from the smartly dressed redcoats of King George's royal army.
	We don't live in palaces here. No one wears a silly crown.
	No one's family is superior in the U.S.A.
	We don't curtsy to "royal blood," especially when that British bloodline is responsible for more bloodshed than all five New York Mafia families together.
	We've had one American king and his name was Elvis.
	So I guess I won't be covering the royal visit because I'm not choking on a tie to write about people who are famous for less than Kim Kardashian.
	At least Kardashian has a union SAG card, and gets paid for peddling her ass.
	The royals get paid for sitting on theirs.
	The Duchess of Cambridge is supposed to visit some youth center in New York with Chirlane McCray, Mayor de Blasio's wife, before joining her royal hubby at a Nets game in Barclays Center.
	That's a stone's throw from the Old Stone House, where on Aug. 27, 1776, 200 brave Marylanders of the Continental Army died in the bloody Battle of Brooklyn.
	Few of those patriots who died to end British monarchical rule met the dress code of the royal family.
	I'll stand in "jeans and trainers" saluting them.