
	Mayor de Blasio can score a sweet victory here.
	Because this is one of those frustrating stories where a great idea that could save hundreds of young lives just needs a little big-shot intervention.
	Patty Russo is an ex-NYPD narcotics detective who runs the Atlas/NYPD Cops and Kids Boxing Program. The outfit has given the city more Golden Gloves champions out of its two gyms on Staten Island and one in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, than any other in the city in recent years.
	Two years ago, responding to a desperate need in Brownsville, Brooklyn, where the Bloods and the Crips were shooting each other — and innocent citizens — in drug turf wars in the 18 local housing projects, Russo secured 10,000 square feet of free space on the second floor of an old warehouse at 326 Junius St.
	"A local minister named the Rev. (Randolph) Ferdinand gave us this space," Russo (below) says. "Joe Ponzi at the Brooklyn DA's office backed us and we raised $25,000 to buy new rings and boxing equipment. Teddy Atlas' foundation paid the insurance. "
	Perfect.
	"The kids, boys and girls, learn clean living, discipline and self-respect, which translate into respect for others in the street," says Russo.
	The teacher also helps kids study for tests and SATs and to fill out applications for colleges, civil service jobs and the military. Many of the kids have gone on to become valuable street-smart police officers.
	"The Bloods wear red in the street and the Crips fly blue. Our kids wear Atlas/NYPD Cops and Kids T-shirts proudly in the street. Through Instagram, Facebook and Twitter, these kids wearing Golden Gloves become local heroes instead of gangbangers flashing guns," said Russo.
	But two weeks after the Brownsville gym opened in 2012, the city Buildings Department shut down the gym because of a lack of a certificate of occupancy.
	"For two years, we fought a no-win battle against City Hall," says Russo.
	Ponzi, former chief investigator for the Brooklyn DA, said he did make headway "navigating through the morass of the Department of Buildings. For years the Rev. Ferdinand had failed to get proper C of O's for a church and homeless shelter also in the building and now for the boxing gym. The Buildings Department finally designated it for 'alternate use' and gave us temporary C of O's. All we needed was a handicapped ramp and an upgraded fire alarm system."
	Those were being addressed as recently as early March when the Department of Finance seized the building for back taxes of about $250,000 that the reverend never mentioned to Ponzi. Ferdinand apparently had never filed the proper religious tax exemption forms. The building was quickly sold by the city on March 13 for about $1.5 million.
	Repeated calls to Ferdinand were not returned.
	Russo is not giving up.
	"We made a promise to Brownsville that we'd open this gym," Russo says. "Now I feel like a liar. I don't want these kids to think a cop like me reneged on a promise. . . . The new landlord said, 'I appreciate how important this gym is, but our investors are not in the not-for-profit business. We need to turn a profit of at least 10%.' "
	These cop trainers and the kid boxers are the pylons of that vital bridge that de Blasio and Police Commissioner Bill Bratton want to build between our police and the minority community. The only previous contact the kids of Brownsville had with our police was through an abusive policy of stop and frisk.
	De Blasio must think of Patty Russo as the gatekeeper of that bridge. The mayor can now move the arthritic hand of the bureaucracy either to find this program a new home in Brownsville or offer the new landlord of 326 Junius St. a tax incentive he can't refuse to let this boxing gym stay put.
	A truly progressive administration can't let this bridge between our cops and our kids collapse any more than he can let the Brooklyn Bridge fall down.
	"I'm not throwing in the towel yet," says Russo. "I think we can still win this fight under this new administration."