
	When I reached the fork in the rural road, I stopped on foot to get my bearings.
	I had needed a respite from the urban blare of honking buses, breaking glass and night sirens that told of varied human suffering.
	The morning news was a collage of carnage about the grieving family of another ISIS beheading victim, another baby shaken until brain-dead, a man pushing a perfect stranger underneath a subway train, a man dying in a fire in Brooklyn.
	I closed the newspapers. I shut off the TV. I fled the city cauldron, seeking the healing, motherly hand of nature. I hungered for a transcendental peace like Henry David Thoreau's unblemished Walden Pond.
	I steered my car through the angry New York traffic until I spotted the dense, shadowy promise of the forest. I parked and hiked a beaten path into the sheltering embrace of the autumn trees. All at once, I was in a realm of cawing birds and small, scurrying animals. Fulvous leaves dressed the towering beech and maples that climbed to a cold, blue sky.
	The left path of the fork led into a thicket of stately yellowing maples.
	The right-hand road veered into a denser parade of beech, with rugged hillocks built of strong, gray boulders.
	Like the nation, I took the road to the right to see where it might lead. I peered up to the sudden commotion of a red-tailed hawk flapping to a high hunter's perch. I became transfixed by the cascade of Indian summer leaves spinning in hypnotic slow motion to the hungry earth.
	I passed a shimmering kettle pond where a few stubborn mallards lurked by the shore. I heard a rustle in a deep green bush, and a small bird with speckled wings and starched white breast looked me right in the eye, cocking his nervous head, as if to say, "What the hell are you doing here?"
	Then he bulleted into the trees, answering Jack London's call of the wild.
	As had I.
	The pathway was carpeted with a brown, gold, orange, pink, magenta and black quilt of damp leaves. A gray rabbit twitched at me, then, boing, zigzagged away into the bramble. Squirrels foraged. I could hear a woodpecker working a day shift. A chipmunk darted past me, plunging into a hole in the good earth.
	I came upon a clearing possibly formed by Hurricane Sandy's wrath. Toppled trees and splintered limbs all scrawled together, the branches like the disturbing scribbles of an angry child. The root ball of one maple was dark, lumpy and gnarled like the smashed fist of a punch-drunk fighter who had taken one too many blows.
	Here in this clearing, with the trees dressed in elegant fall fashions, with birds singing and animals scampering, where you could hear the low steady life-force ohm of the universe on the chilly November wind, the blessings of nature in autumn were the only front-page news.
	The headline: Shhhhhhh.
	Here, no babies were being shaken to death. No one was having his noble head severed. No bad guy would push a good guy under the steel wheels of a screeching train.
	Even the hawk gave the rabbit and the chipmunk a pass.
	I felt the loud, crowded, often unkind city that I love rush out of my body. Here, I stopped for a good, long time to breathe the crisp air and let my senses awaken to the sights, sounds, smells, touch and tastes of life.
	My phone rang.
	And I rushed out of the 200-acre forest of 200-year-old trees and across the ballfields and playground of Alley Pond Park in Oakland Gardens, Queens.
	I jumped in my car on Springfield Blvd. and drove to my appointment as the truck driver behind me blared his insidious horn and the car radio repeated the human horrors of the civilized world.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com