
	Come all ye faithful.
	And also those like me who've drifted from the flock.
	This is the best time of the year for strayed Catholics to come back to the church and celebrate Christmas. I was sitting with Timothy Cardinal Dolan last week asking why only 12% of the 2.8 million Catholics in his Diocese of New York regularly attend Sunday Mass.
	He said it was a real problem with internal and external causes, but ever the optimist, he laughed and quoted Jimmy Breslin: "Most lapsed Catholics are only one chest pain away from returning to the church."
	Or one doo-wop song.
	My favorite trip to church is to the annual St. Athanasius Christmas Doo Wop Gala, which is Saturday, Dec. 6, at the 101-year-old church on Bay Parkway in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn.
	"Doors open at 6 p.m.," says event organizer Ronnie Califano, who has staged the Christmas fund-raiser for six years. "The show starts at 7 p.m., featuring Herb Cox and the Cleftones, who sang 'Heart and Soul,' The Marcels, famous for 'Blue Moon,' LaLa Brooks and the Crystals, who had a hit with 'Doo Ron Ron,' and Randy and the Rainbows, who hit the charts with 'Denise,' and the Paradons, who did 'Diamonds and Pearls.'"
	Califano, known on the timeless streets of Bensonhurst as Downtown Ronnie, pauses in the lobby of St. A's to sell two $60 tickets in the 600-seat school auditorium to Nicky Campagone, 59, who never misses the show.
	"I'm one of those guys who got more than a chest pain and came back to church," Campagone says, laughing. "This doo-wop show put on by Downtown Ronnie is like a ticket to a time machine back to the magic way Christmas in Brooklyn used to be. All the people who went to school or church here come back to say hello and listen to the music we grew up on."
	Another fan, who wants to be known just as Carmine from Mulberry St. in Greenwich Village, was buying a table for 10.
	"Four years ago, I came to the show right after colon cancer surgery," he said. "Downtown offered to replace my table with a medical sofa bed. I sat at the table instead, and the music, the people, the whole beautiful vibe just put me in a holiday mood that I swear to God helped cure me. It was like going to Lourdes."
	"It's a bring-your-own-food deal with a cash bar," says Califano. "Some people have tables catered. Most cook. And do they ever cook. Three generations of the same family cooks. Grandma makes the gravy and meatballs. Her daughter Marie makes enough lasagna to feed a homeless shelter. The granddaughter Angela, yeah, she makes the sausage and the peppers. And who brings the salad? Who the shrimp? And who brings the bread and the pastries and the nitro pills? The guys, we crowd the bar shooting the breeze, buying drinks for the table. People buy raffles. We eat. We toast. We hug. We kiss. We drink. We sing. We laugh. We cry. We celebrate another Christmas on this side of the grass. And we raise money for St. A's because it's still the soul of Bensonhurst."
	Msgr. David Cassato, church pastor, says the Christmas show adds garland to the parish all year.
	"The proceeds go to our school, helping to keep tuition affordable," he says. "And so this year enrollment rose from 298 to 328, a 10% increase. Plus 800 kids in religious instruction. Our Hispanic attendance rose from 250 to 1,500 at three Spanish-language Sunday Masses. At a time when other churches are merging or sadly shuttering, St. A's has over 2,500 people packing Sunday Masses. We're blessed."
	Cassato, who is recovering from gastro-intestinal surgery says the spiritual strength of St. A's helped him heal.
	"The prayers of the St. A's parishioners gave me the extra oomph to bounce back," he says. "I'm back saying Masses, baptizing babies, marrying young couples. I have another surgery scheduled but not until after the Christmas doo-wop show."
	A bevy of politicians and religious leaders always attend, including Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams, Assemblyman William Colton and FDNY Chaplain Rabbi Joseph Potasnik. And no Christmas show at St. A's would be kosher without the blessing of Boro Park's aptly named Rabbi Gershon Tannenbaum.
	Come all ye faithful ... and anyone with a chest pain.
	For tickets call (347) 671-5556.