
	Retired Army Capt. James Van Thach knows that every day is Veterans Day.
	He was badly wounded twice in Iraq. These days he's on a new tour of duty back home as a first responder trying to reduce the alarming number of veterans committing suicide.
	"Every 65 minutes, one of my fellow veterans commits suicide," he says. "Twenty-two a day. It's my duty as a veteran to try to save some of them."
	Last week, Van Thach saved one.
	"I'd met him at a speaking engagement," he says. "He seemed troubled. I gave him my card. I told him to call me if he needed help.
	"This troubled veteran called me a few days later. He was about 35, having suicidal thoughts. I asked why. He said he'd been working for a U.S. attorney's office in New York. A fellow vet had made a serious blunder on the job. This vet who called me had tried to help a fellow vet. But it turned out the mistake the first vet made was a crime. And by trying to help him rectify it, he'd jeopardized himself."
	
	The suicidal vet told Van Thach he was forced to resign or face stiffer consequences.
	"Unemployed, he soon lost his apartment," says Van Thach. "Homeless for trying to help a fellow vet, after serving his nation in a foreign war. He felt lost, alienated, hopeless. So I calmed him down by telling him about my own background."
	Van Thach had joined the Army in 2006 after graduating from Touro Law School. Instead of becoming a safe Judge Advocate General lawyer, he volunteered for combat duty just as his father had in Vietnam, where his dad met a Vietnamese woman who became his wife.
	"This country helped bring about 80 members of my mother's family to the U.S.A. after Vietnam fell under communism," Van Thach says. "So I owed my country my service."
	Van Thach told the suicidal vet that in March 2006 in Iraq, his vehicle hit an improvised explosive device, leaving him with brain, neck and back injuries. Then in February 2007, a Katyusha rocket landed about 60 feet away from him in a Baghdad base camp.
	When he awoke in the hospital with more brain, neck, back and leg injuries, Van Thach was awarded the Bronze Star and a Purple Heart and told that his combat days were over. Still, he refused to return home, volunteering to use his legal skills to expedite the contracts necessary to build a new base camp specifically designed to stop the Iranian Revolutionary Guard from smuggling arms into Iraq.
	After 25 months in Iraq, Van Thach marched home to Bellerose, Queens, where he had attended Francis Lewis High School and St. John's University, and began a new tour of duty as a suicide-prevention specialist.
	
	Walking with the help of a cane and a yellow Labrador service dog named Liz, Van Thach has become an inspirational speaker to veterans groups all over the country and even traveled to Afghanistan to address combat troops in 2012.
	"I suffer from posttraumatic stress disorder," he says. "So I understand what drives other vets with PTSD to suicide. I spoke with this suicidal veteran for a long time, telling him that he needed to find his PAL — passion, aspiration, legacy. I told him my passion was to serve my country and fellow vets. I aspired to and found a way to help those vets like him. My legacy for my children, community and country will be that I served my nation in a time of war and my fellow veterans after the war."
	Van Thach is now helping this suicidal vet search for a new job so that he can find a home of his own.
	One program Van Thach endorses is Battlefields to Ballfields, where veterans will be trained by program director Zach Rebackoff, and a former major league umpire who hopes to find them jobs as umpires for youth, high school and college baseball.
	"Once the vet I spoke with finds a job and a home again, he won't feel hopeless and alienated. This can prevent a suicide," Van Thach said. "He knows he's not alone now. Not hopeless. If I can help even a few fellow veterans like him from committing suicide every 65 minutes, then I am helping to win the war at home."
	Thanks for your service, Capt. Van Thach.