
	Danny Aiello's memories race across the pages of his new book like the cops are in pursuit.
	The actor did a lot of running from the police growing up in Manhattan's West Side and the South Bronx, making money shining shoes, running numbers, shooting pool and even robbing safes.
	"My father was rarely around," Aiello says. "So I was raised with my three sisters by my wonderful mother, Frances, who never badmouthed my absentee father. I did things I'm not proud of to bring money into the house."
	Maybe the pages turn so fast because Aiello has spent a lifetime running from himself, which inspired the title, "I Only Know Who I Am When I Am Somebody Else."
	"I joined the Army in 1951 to fight in Korea after being investigated for a murder I didn't commit," he says. "They sent me to Germany, where I basically played baseball for 28 months after the Army learned I'd been scouted by the New York Giants. Baseball would play a big role in my life."
	Aiello came home, married Sandy Cohen, his wife of 61 years, and worked as a baggage handler at the Greyhound bus terminal in Manhattan.
	"I graduated to the job of announcing buses on the PA system," he says. "It was my first public performance. Then I became a bus drivers union leader, and after work I often went to the nearby Improvisation comedy club run by Budd Friedman — before I got fired for calling a wildcat strike."
	Friedman offered him $180 a week to work the Improv door.
	"That job opened the door to show business for me," Aiello says. "I ejected hecklers and emceed and sometimes I'd even sing on stage."
	At the Improv, a fledgling playwright from Hoboken, named Louis LaRusso cast Aiello in a 1970 showcase production of "Lamppost Reunion."
	"We played to packed houses," Aiello says.
	As LaRusso searched for Broadway backers, a fellow actor told Aiello that a new baseball movie titled "Bang the Drum Slowly" was being cast. Director John Hancock hired Aiello on the spot.
	"In 1972 at age 39, I was in my first movie, starring with a young actor named Robert De Niro who knew nothing about baseball," Aiello says.
	"Bang the Drum Slowly" opened to rave reviews, and Aiello was soon strutting the boards of Broadway in "Lamppost Reunion."
	"I couldn' t believe that some critics compared me to Marlon Brando," he says.
	Aiello would go on to win an Obie for his role as an Italian-American father in Albert Innaurato's "Gemini."
	Then Aiello's movie career took off with "The Godfather Part II," "Fort Apache, The Bronx," "Broadway Danny Rose," "Once Upon a Time in America," "The Purple Rose of Cairo," "Moonstruck" and Spike Lee's "Do the Right Thing," which earned him a supporting actor Oscar nomination in 1990.
	"Spike is still a dear friend, even though he's a liberal and I'm a conservative," Aiello says. "I've worked with great directors, including Woody Allen, Francis Ford Coppola, Robert Altman, Luc Besson, Paul Mazursky. Everybody but Martin Scorsese."
	Why?
	"Not sure," says Aiello, who has a new flick, "Reach Me," opening Friday . "He's made so many films about Italian-Americans that I have to assume it's personal. Maybe my politics."
	Aiello writes in his book that producer Dino De Laurentiis asked him to give the book "Raging Bull" to De Niro when De Laurentiis owned the movie rights in 1974. "De Niro had never heard of (Jake) LaMotta," says Aiello. "So I gave him the book and told him LaMotta was a great fighter and great movie character."
	Cut to years later, when Scorsese was casting "Raging Bull" for different producers.
	"Scorsese called me in to offer me a nonspeaking part of a bodyguard," says Aiello. "De Niro was there, but out of respect to Scorsese, he said nothing. I declined what was basically an extra's role, thanked Scorsese and left. He's never called me again, which is a disappointment because he's a great director."
	In "I Only Know Who I Am," Aiello pulls no punches.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com