
	Give thanks for Teddy Atlas.
	The legendary boxing trainer and TV commentator straddles the two worlds of bold-face celebrities and the poor, sick, maimed, lost, luckless and forgotten of our city.
	For the 18th year on Thursday, Nov. 20, the annual celebrity-studded fund-raising dinner for the Dr. Theodore Atlas Foundation, named for Atlas's near-saintly father who treated the poor, will be held at the Staten Island Hilton.
	Save the date, because it is a night when a $200 tax-deductible contribution can make a real difference in the lives of people dealt bad cards in a tough time in our big-hearted town.
	"This fund-raiser reminds the rest of us who can afford $200 on dinner, drinks and entertainment that we have much to be grateful for," says Atlas.
	The funds raised are carefully distributed through the year by Atlas and staff. Jammed-up people present their needs, and if the need is urgent, help is often hand-delivered.
	Ask Robert Buckman, 55, who mops supermarket floors to put his daughter Samantha, 22, through college. When his beloved wife, Susan, died in January at 56, he wrote to Atlas saying he didn't want her buried in Potter's Field.
	"But he couldn't afford to cremate her," Atlas says. "We paid the $600 to have her cremated. Robert's one of those guys who, because he and his daughter both work part-time, they get no benefits but earn too much to qualify for city aid. So we also paid his back gas and electric bills."
	Yes, Samantha, there is a Santa Claus.
	Just ask Albert Marra, 44, who contacted the Atlas Foundation after his wife, Irene, had a leg amputated because of diabetes complications. "The Marras live in a building where you gotta climb 13 steps to get in and out to go for dialysis three times a week," Atlas says. "They desperately needed a chair lift. So we spent $5,000 of last year's Atlas dinner money to install the lift."
	Marra sent Atlas a letter of overwhelmed thanks: "We simply can't believe the Atlas Foundation did this and so fast. My wife and I lean on each other. But if we can ever give back, it will be to the Atlas Foundation."
	"That's what I call 'thanks giving,' " says Atlas. "Their thanks belongs to all those who come to the dinner."
	Michael Axt, 53, thanks the donors who made it possible for the Atlas Foundation to help his wife, Susan, 53, live with a little more dignity. "Susan developed melanoma that spread to her brain," says Atlas. "It triggered a stroke. She couldn't get into the bathtub unless she had a special handicap-accessible bathroom installed. But health insurance companies never cover this kind of stuff. And brand-name charities spend 90% of their money on salaries. We spend almost 100% on people. So when Michael Axt asked us for help, we sent in contractors to widen the bathroom door, install a new tub, and for $7,000 Susan battles her disease with some dignified pride."
	A cavalcade of celebrities greet guests at the fund-raiser, including tennis great John McEnroe; Bridget Moynahan of "Blue Bloods"; Charles Oakley and John Starks of the street-tough Knicks of yesteryear; actress and boxing fan Rosie Perez; the great actor Danny Aiello, who has a terrific new memoir out; Bobby Valentine, who managed the Mets and Red Sox; eight-time NBA All Star Dikembe Mutombo, and baseball ace Al Leiter.
	The Atlas dinner has become a huge New York night when good people who actually give a damn about the less fortunate come out for the best charity in town to bid on sports memorabilia, meet some of the people helped by last year's fund-raiser and lift a cup of holiday cheer over a fine meal.
	The Saturday after every Atlas dinner the College of Staten Island baseball team lines up at the Atlas Foundation headquarters on Cary Ave. to distribute 1,000 turkeys and all the trimmings to struggling families who want their children to share in the great American bounty.
	"It's not me who does this stuff," Atlas says. "It's the people who come to the Dr. Atlas dinner — they make this possible. So please, come and give thanks for what you have and help less fortunate people who will thank you right back. You really will make a difference."
	For ticket information call (718) 980-7037  or visit www.dratlasfoundation.com.