
	Happy Halloween.
	I can't wait for kids dressed as monsters to come trick-or-treating.
	I need a respite from the real-life evil that haunts us every day of the year.
	I need to see someone dressed as a zombie to divert me from the living-dead hysteria of Ebola. So far, one person has died from Ebola in the U.S. But as my friend Liz Nacinovitch points out, the disease is a perfect misdirection from the true epidemic of gun violence in America, epitomized in Marysville, Wash., last week by yet another school shooting.
	In August, the gun plague made news when a 9-year-old girl in pigtails and pink shorts accidentally killed a gun instructor on a shooting range. The story lasted as long as it took the gunsmoke to dissipate.
	
	So I wanna see a kid dressed as Jason from "Friday the 13th" ringing my doorbell on Halloween. Maybe the fictional slasher will help me forget for a few moments the real-life jihadist psycho who attacked four uniformed policemen in Queens, hacking one young cop's head and another's arm. The attacker was shot dead by the cops. Lucky his hatchet wasn't an automatic handgun or he might have killed four officers.
	This came after similar self-radicalized jihadists killed two Canadian soldiers in separate attacks. That put 9,500 U.S. government buildings on high alert. These sickos are clearly inspired by the twisted ISIS coward in the black mask who makes snuff films for the Internet, videotaping the beheadings of defenseless American and British captives.
	
	I need a trick-or-treater dressed as an executioner with a bloody plastic ax to make me laugh long enough to forget the real maniac on Long Island who beheaded his own mother before throwing himself in front of a train.
	I need to see a little girl dressed as the Good Witch to keep my mind off the jury deliberating the fate of Gigi Jordan, who prosecutors say is a Wicked Witch who murdered her 8-year-old boy with a drug overdose. Jordan's only hope is that a spellbound jury will swallow her defense that she was protecting the child from sexual abuse from his father, who has not been charged with a crime.
	I hope some kid comes dressed in a Jets jersey and cleats to remind me that the team that Joe Namath brought to Super Bowl victory in 1969 wasn't always such a horror. And while we're talking scary sports: The Frankensteins and the Draculas ringing my bell will be more welcome than real-life NFL monsters like Ray Rice and Adrian Peterson, who apparently think beating women and kids is fair game.
	
	When a cute little girl comes dressed as cat, it might help me forget the YouTube image of a ghoul named Andre Robinson kicking a defenseless stray feline at a Brooklyn housing project.
	I can't wait to see a little boy and girl trick-or-treat together as giddy best friends to help me forget Prince Joshua (PJ) Avitto, 6, and Mikayla Capers, 7, who were stabbed by a hulking bogeyman in a Brooklyn elevator in June. PJ died; Mikayla survived. Cops charged a guy named Daniel St. Hubert, 27, straight from the boiler room of hell.
	I almost had that one out of my system when Jeida Torres, 3, and her brother, Andrew, 5, were found savagely beaten in Bushwick, Brooklyn, a few weeks ago. Jeida died; Andrew survived. Police have charged their stepfather, Kelsey Smith, 20, who should dress in prison stripes until the smiling mortician carts him off to Potter's Field.
	As excited kids dress up as monsters on Halloween, it is scary that many are being raised by werewolves who are legally permitted to beat them in the 19 states where corporal punishment is legal.
	
	That's monstrous.
	So was the report last week about a 20-year-old woman walking on E. 78th St. in Manhattan when a man asked her for a light. As she rooted in her bag for a friendly match, the evil bastard slammed her against a building wall and raped her.
	I can't wait to see the kids dressed up as make-believe monsters on Halloween to help keep our minds off the real monsters among us.
	Happy Halloween.