
	We're still killing the messengers.
	I sat in a movie theater in Manhasset, L.I., the other night watching "Kill the Messenger," a powerful new film starring Jeremy Renner, directed by a New Yorker named Michael Cuesta, about how a few of the elite weasels of my own business conspired with CIA smear merchants to destroy a terrific reporter's life.
	Renner plays real-life reporter Gary Webb, who worked for the San Jose Mercury News in 1996. Webb uncovered an astounding story about how the CIA looked the other way when the right-wing Contras of Nicaragua smuggled crack cocaine into the inner city neighborhoods of the U.S.A. to help fund the overthrow of the left-wing Sandinista government.
	When this tank-town reporter scooped the big-city heavyweights from the L.A. Times, New York Times and Washington Post, the embarrassed high-paid editors and star reporters set out with the help of the reeling CIA to smear Webb. They deconstructed and attacked his reporting. They dug into his past sex life. They destroyed his marriage and wrecked his career, and he wound up dead with two bullets in his head, which authorities ruled a suicide.
	How you manage to put two bullets in your own head is worth some investigative reporting of its own.
	To their lasting shame, the movie — based on Webb's book "Dark Alliance" and "Kill the Messenger" by Nick Schou — suggests that even his own Mercury News editors helped deep-six him.
	Anyway, turns out that Webb's original reporting was later vindicated. The CIA eventually admitted they did know the Contras were smuggling cocaine into the U.S.A. And the elite newspapers not only were scooped by Webb but got the story wrong about him.
	"Kill the Messenger" is the best newspaper movie since "All the President's Men," because it shows that newspapers are put out by flawed people who in the crush of daily deadlines don't always get everything right. But I would stack the general integrity of the people of my guild against those in government any day, especially when exposing, as Webb did, our shadowy, underhanded and even law-breaking powerbrokers.
	I was thinking about all this as the end credits of "Kill the Messenger" rolled. I also thought about the 148 brave journalists and 54 other media workers killed in Iraq since the March 2003 invasion and the 19 journalists killed in Afghanistan, and 34 killed in Pakistan.
	And I thought about the world watching this ISIS savage with the Halloween mask beheading brave messengers like James Foley, who go into harm's way to try to get the story for the general public. The whole world gasped after watching the footage of Foley being beheaded in an international terrorist snuff film.
	But we're still "killing" our own messengers here at home.
	Two nights after watching "Kill the Messenger" I watched the "60 Minutes" interview with Michael Hayden, former director of the National Security Agency, who said he was "conflicted" about making New York Times reporter James Risen do prison time for refusing to reveal his source for his stories on the NSA's warrantless eavesdropping on Americans. Hayden believes Risen hurt national security but that it was also wrong if "the method of redressing that actually harms the broad freedom of the press."
	Good for him.
	James Comey, head of the FBI, also took to the airways, saying, "I believe that Americans should be deeply skeptical of government power. You cannot trust the people in power. The founders knew that. That's why they divided power among three branches to set interest against interest."
	Right.
	And Thomas Jefferson also said, "If I had to choose between government without newspapers and newspapers without government, I wouldn't hesitate to choose the latter."
	Our government leaders rail against censorship in Russia, China and the Middle East, and act outraged when ISIS barbarians behead our reporters. But when an American reporter like Risen exposes that same government as lawbreaking Big Brothers spying on our citizens it threatens to imprison him.
	The incoherence makes your head spin like Linda Blair's in "The Exorcist."
	And it spins off your shoulders when you watch a movie like "Kill the Messenger" that shows that even the big shots of the Fourth Estate colluded with the most corrupt of that shady government to cannibalize one of its own.
	At least the national press will rally behind James Risen of the prestigious New York Times, which, of course, we should. But, one wonders, if Risen worked for a regional paper like Webb did, whether the media big shots would have called for his head.