
	In 1989, Carlos Castillo was 11 and living with his single mother and three siblings in a homeless shelter in Queens.
	A quarter-century later, Castillo, 36, is a 14-year veteran of the NYPD, investigating identity-theft cases in Brooklyn.
	"One break that made a big difference to me as a shelter kid was a lady named Ximena Rau Merkin of the Big Buddy program," he says.
	"Every Saturday, Ximena would pick me up at 9 a.m., and as part of her student community service for Queens College, she would take me and a little girl named Natasha out to great places in the big city," he says.
	"Museums, the Central Park Zoo, Yankee games, Statue of Liberty, the aquarium, Empire State Building. I got to see the world beyond the homeless shelter."
	Rau Merkin remembers walking with Castillo through Times Square one afternoon and stopping in the Marriott Marquis Hotel.
	"The kids needed to use the bathroom," says Rau Merkin, now a consultant to nonprofit organizations. "Carlos walked through the opulent lobby and said, 'Someday, I am going to earn enough money to spend a night here.'"
	That kid from the Jamaica shelter who got a glimpse of how the other half lived excelled in school. He avoided drugs and gangs after his family moved to Brooklyn's Pink Houses, graduated from high school and attended Kingsborough Community College while working nights at a Chase bank in Hicksville, L.I.
	"Ximena even bought me my first used car," he says.
	The Big Buddy program was started 25 years ago by then-Queens College professor Arty Salz, who says he got the idea in 1989 while on sabbatical in Israel.
	"Hebrew University had a program where students did field work with indigent children," Salz says. "I was very impressed and moved. So I started Big Buddy at Queens College in which students would volunteer to spend every Saturday with at least one homeless kid."
	The Queens College students receive three credits for their community service.
	"We give them $12 for carfare and a Queens College letter explaining the program and it usually gets them into every attraction free," he says. "Kids bring a lunch. Those Saturdays have made a huge difference on the 1,200 kids we've serviced in the last 25 years."
	"It showed me that there was someone out there beside my mom who cared about me out there on the last stop on the J line," Castillo says. "I believe in God. Everything happens for a reason. Living in a shelter taught me exactly what I didn't want in life. Then Ximena came into my life like a blessing to show me the world beyond the shelter. Later, in the Pink Houses, I met a housing cop named Jerry Ferrara, who took an interest in the good kids in the projects. He'd buy you a Snapple, have snowball fights with you, steered kids like me away from gangs. I admired him so much, he made me wanna be a cop. Ximena and Jerry changed my life."
	Carlos Castillo also had an impact on Ximena Rau Merkin's life.
	"As a student, I never imagined working in the world of nonprofits," she says. "But the year I spent in Big Buddy with Carlos exposed me to places like Covenant House, where I took the kids. I later worked for Covenant House and American Red Cross. And Carlos and I stay in touch. But you never know what will develop out of a relationship with a child. I was an only child from Bolivia, and so Carlos became the little brother I never had."
	"When we started Big Buddy 25 years ago, there were 10,000 homeless kids in New York City," Salz says. "Today, there's a disgraceful 26,000 on any given night. I'm retired but still running Big Buddy at Queens College with two great women named Cheryl Marmou Halm and Elizabeth Schneider. Big Buddy is more crucial now than ever with so many homeless kids in this city."
	Kids like Officer Carlos Castillo used to be.
	"Living in a shelter and meeting Ximena through Big Buddy also influenced the kind of cop I am," he says. "I use discretion. I believe in compassion. Unlike some cops I've met on the job, I don't automatically think all poor kids, shelter kids, projects kids, are all bad kids. We're not. We're just kids who need that first big break like I got when I met Ximena through Big Buddy and I got to see the world and imagine a life outside the homeless shelter."
	dhamill@nydailynews.com