
	I think coach George Najjar might be another victim of the Sayreville sex-assault scandal.
	The George Najjar I knew growing up in the working-class Park Slope, Brooklyn, of the 1960s would have been outraged by the alleged hazing in the football locker room at Sayreville War Memorial High in New Jersey.
	I haven't spoken to George in many years, but mutual friends have often told me how well he was doing. He was head football coach at Lincoln High School in Coney Island. Then, while at Sayreville, he was voted into the New Jersey Football Coaches Association Hall of Fame. I wasn't surprised that he'd made football his life, because as a kid who hung around Bennie's candy store on Ninth St. and Eighth Ave. in the 1960s, George was known as one of the best athletes in Park Slope.
	When many of us were lost in the purple haze of Woodstock Nation, George was always as straight as a ruler, in phenomenal physical shape, a disciplined guy who believed in the rewards of hard work.
	George played for a local football team called the Arrows and dominated the gridiron of Prospect Park.
	He was funny, as street-smart as an alley cat, and he lived by the unwritten code of the Brooklyn street that included never picking on someone smaller than you, never messing with someone else's girl and never talking smack behind someone's back.
	When I read that the George Najjar who was the head football coach of scandalized Sayreville War Memorial High was "our" George Najjar, I was stunned.
	Then saddened.
	Then as facts came out I became kinda angry. Because I think he's probably getting jobbed.
	I don't want to blindly defend Najjar here. I have not been able to get in touch with him. I'm sure his attorney has imposed strict silence. And as I give him the broad benefit of the doubt, I am also reminded of the great Colombian novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez's observation: "All human beings have three lives: public, private and secret."
	Most people admire the public George Najjar as a man of integrity and character. I knew the private one because the Brooklyn street corner is a time-tested laboratory of human behavior that usually reveals a true portrait. Only George knows the secret George Najjar. But if I were called as a character witness for the George Najjar I knew back in the day, I wouldn't be able to testify to a single negative thing about him.
	So my first reaction when he was suspended was that he was being used as a fall guy, a tackle dummy for the high school and town of Sayreville.
	As a parent of a high school athlete, I'd trust my son with George Najjar. That said, like most parents, I wouldn't want him or any other male adult in a locker room where kids change and shower. The coaches at my son's high school don't go into the locker room.
	George Najjar also wisely steered clear of the Sayreville locker room and therefore was not familiar with the behavior in there. If he knew seniors were abusing freshmen, especially in the vile and sexual way alleged in this case, the George Najjar I grew up with would have acted with fierce alacrity. He once stopped a senior bully at Lincoln High from paddling a freshman in a hazing incident.
	Could Najjar have known about a culture of such abuse at Sayreville? Maybe. Do I believe it? No.
	What can be done to prevent such abuse going forward? Tough call. You can't put cameras in locker rooms. Women can't monitor naked teenage boys. At some point, the kids themselves, especially the seniors — maybe overseen by elected "integrity captains" — must take responsibility for their own behavior.
	The George Najjar I knew from the old Brooklyn neighborhood would never tolerate a one-on-one bully, never mind a younger kid getting jumped by a gang of older punks.
	I spoke to two guys who also knew George back in the '60s. Both agreed that no way would the George Najjar they knew have tolerated or covered up the abuse at Sayreville War Memorial High.
	That's why I believe George Najjar might be another victim here.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com