
	Just this week, Tony Yarbough, who wrongly served 22 years in prison for the 1992 murders of his mother and sister, finally got to pray over a gravestone for them.
	A Daily News reader had seen a story in this space that on Mother's Day, after searching for their graves for three frustrating months after his release, Yarbough finally traveled from St. Albans, Queens, to Rosemount Cemetery in Elizabeth, N.J., and discovered his mother and sister lying side by side in an unmarked patch of grass under a budding tree.
	That reader, who wanted to stay anonymous, had learned that only after attorneys Phil Smallman and Zach Margulis-Ohnuma took on Yarbough's case did the Brooklyn district attorney start to realize an innocent man was incarcerated. The lawyers showed that DNA found in another woman who was raped and strangled in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, while Yarbough was in prison matched the DNA under the nails of Annie Yarbough. That meant Annie Yarbough, her daughter and her daughter's friend had been killed by someone other than Tony.
	After Yarbough was released in February, he told me the first thing he wanted to do was find out where his mother and sister were buried so he could pray over their graves. "I never had time to even grieve for them," he said.
	On Mother's Day, Smallman and I watched Yarbough kneel over the unmarked graves. "Once I get a job, I will buy them a grave marker," he said.
	The next day, the News reader called the cemetery and arranged to place a black marble marker with a gold cross and an inscription on the twin graves: "YARBOUGH — Annie 1952-1992 — Chavonne 1979-1992. Together Forever."
	"Wow, wow, wow! Tony Yarbough says of the gravestone glinting in the Indian summer sun.
	"Beautiful. They're acknowledged. They're remembered. They know someone cares. They can, at long last, rest in peace. Safe and dignified. When your mom and sister are murdered and forgotten and you do time for their murders, you die a little too."
	Yarbough chokes down a tear and says, "I want to thank that Daily News reader who paid the $5,000 to make this happen with all my heart," he says. "God sent her to me. The way God, who knew I was innocent, sent my lawyers Phil and Zach to me. I always knew one day God would open the prison gates for me and that one day I would find my mom's and little sister's graves. It was a woman reader. She wouldn't give a name. Angels don't give names, I guess."
	Yarbough says he will visit the graves on all the holidays and birthdays "and just when I need to talk to Mom."
	"When I was in my cell, feeling sorry for myself, I remembered Mom telling me when I was 11, 'Boy, life don't owe you nothing. It's up to you to go make good things happen.' So I started writing letters to all the wrongfully convicted organizations. They all rejected me. Until Zach Margulis-Ohnuma and Phil Smallman decided to help me."
	Since his release, Yarbough has rented a basement apartment, joined a Pentecostal church, and in two weeks, will start a maintenance job in a major hotel in Times Square. "A union job," he says with pride. "I have food in my fridge, a small bank account in my own name, a hot shower, a TV and a set of keys of my own. I also voted for the first time in my life on Primary Day. My hands were shaking as I voted for Gov. Cuomo. I'll vote for Ken Thompson too for DA when he's up for reelection for agreeing to free me."
	Tony Yarbough is a walking civics lesson, celebrating a simple set of keys, $11 in the bank, the glorious human dignity of a J-O-B and the truest form of freedom on the planet known as voting in a democratic society. On Monday, he also thanked a Daily News reader for a simple stone marker.
	"I hold no grudges," he says. "I freed myself of hate, resentment, grudges. I left all that back in Attica. I can't get those stolen years back but I can make up for them by having a great life every single day. That's all my mom ever wanted for me. I have a lawsuit pending. If I get some money, I'll buy a home and give to charity. The way that Daily News reader did by buying the beautiful gravestone for my mom and sister."
	dhamill@nydailynews.com