
	A couple of years ago, I taught my son how to play stickball. I introduced him to the pink rubber ball called the Spaldeen that was the center of my universe as a Brooklyn kid.
	I told him about hanging around candy stores and luncheonettes after games, drinking an almost-defunct magic potion called an "egg cream." My kid hit a couple of "two-sewer" shots in a Police Athletic League stickball tournament at Metro Tech. But I had nowhere to take him afterward for the bubbly white mustache of a vanilla egg cream.
	Then last week my brother Brian calls me saying I gotta rush to a new joint called Hamilton's Soda Fountain on W. Fourth and Bank Sts. in Greenwich Village.
	"Egg cream as good as Sanew's," he said of our long-vanished soda fountain-candy store hangout.
	My son eavesdropped and crushed my shoes until I took him to Hamilton's Soda Fountain for dinner.
	When I stepped inside, the decades melted away as people swiveled on stools at the marble counter where soda jerks mixed Fox's syrups from Brooklyn with bubbling seltzer and scooped Jane's Ice Cream fresh from upstate Kingston cows into Hamilton Beach mixers circa 1950.
	"This is boss, man," I mumbled.
	"What?" asked my son, unfamiliar with the early '60s slang that has evolved into "awesome, dude."
	We sat at one of a dozen marble tables where a waiter with a white paper cap handed us menus boasting of BLTs, grilled cheese sandwiches, chicken salad, egg salad and Reuben sandwiches, homemade coleslaw. Burgers were $5, hand-cut French fries, $2.50, fountain-mixed sodas $2 and egg creams $4.
	We ordered burgers, fries and Cokes. But we started with two tall vanilla egg creams served freezing cold with foamier heads than Coney Island beers. I watched my kid, born in the new century, take his very first sip of the endangered egg cream, created by a pharmacist in the late 1800s. His eyes closed as a Santa's mustache spread across his smiling upper lip.
	"Oh ... my ... God," he gasped, coming up for air, licking his lips, and then draining the egg cream with a straw until it made a slurping sound.
	The owner, Matthew Paratore, who also runs the popular Minerva restaurant next door, explained how a soda fountain was resurrected in the West Village.
	"I grew up in Merrick, L.I., hanging at soda fountains at the local pharmacy and the five-and-dime," he says. "When they disappeared, it broke my heart. I've been thinking of opening one ever since. When I opened Minerva three years ago, I realized how much of a real neighborhood the West Village still is, with lots of fixed-income old-timers, mostly Italians and Jews like in Merrick, who can't afford to eat in pricey Village restaurants. I realized there was a hole in the neighborhood."
	So Paratore rented the corner storefront.
	"We bought a refurbished Bastian-Blessing fountain made in 1930 from America Soda Fountain in Chicago," he says. "Installed a marble bar and laid a cracked tile floor."
	As they built, Paratore noticed elderly neighborhood folks on tiptoes peeking over the newspapers taped in the windows.
	"I invited them in," he says. "They shared great childhood soda fountain stories."
	When Paratore told them he'd be open 6 a.m. to midnight and showed them the moderately priced menu, word bounced around the street like a Spaldeen.
	When Hamilton's opened a month ago the place was packed. Seniors, civil servants, middle-aged couples, teenagers on dates.
	"Schoolkids and their moms pack in after school," Paratore says. "Another wave comes for early dinner. Dog walkers gather at 10 p.m. We're still crowded at midnight, serving over 300 people a day, averaging $8 per head."
	When we ate our delicious dinner, a couple sat to our left, a family with kids and a stroller to our right, single people at the counter, old-timers by the window.
	"A staff of 15 works two nine-hour shifts," says Paratore. "Profit comes from efficiency and volume. It's working so well we're thinking of opening Hamilton's in other boroughs."
	My son told Paratore his pals would love one in Queens. And Brooklyn could sure use a soda fountain again, especially if it sells Spaldeens.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com