
	Ryan thought he was slick.
	His car insurance premium was too high. He decided to switch companies to save $1,000. He'd done that a few years back and it went haywire and he wound up in an insurance lapse and had to pay the Department of Motor Vehicles some crazy fine that negated the insurance switch savings.
	This time he was sure he knew better.
	But he failed to remember that he had lost the credit card where his forsaken insurance company had billed its monthly charges. A new card was issued. And Ryan forgot to tell the old insurance company the new card number. Then he went out of town on business. And when the old company tried to send its final bill to the lost credit card, the payment didn't go through.
	The insurance-lapse letter from DMV came while Ryan traveled.
	When he got home, he zoomed to the DMV to pay the fine. But this was his second insurance lapse in 36 months. And the DMV ordered him to turn in his plates for 30 days. Which meant renting a car for $1,500 — about $500 more than his insurance-switch savings.
	After 30 days, he was thrilled just to get his own car back.
	After Ryan's car sat in the driveway collecting bird droppings and pine needles for a month, he took it in for a $20 wash-and-wax.
	He parked his gleaming car in front of his house in Queens and the next morning found a $60 ticket for an expired inspection sticker. And his sparkling car was now covered in white polka dots after the entire avian cast of Alfred Hitchcock's "The Birds" staged a reunion on the overhead wires.
	He inched his vehicle from Queens to Brooklyn on that asphalt glacier known as the Belt Parkway to his mechanic Honest Jack on Coney Island Ave. He had his car inspected and tuned up, the tires rotated.
	Another $100.
	Then he inched in traffic back to Queens and the car wash.
	Another $20.
	When he parked, he avoided the part of the overhead wires that the birds designated as their latrine. He thought of sitting at his bedroom window with a slingshot but instead fell into a bottomless sleep, dreaming of waiting at the DMV until a clerk with cloven hooves called his number.
	In the morning, Ryan raced outside to check his car. It shimmered in the morning sun. Not a single bird dropping. His inspection was good. Insurance current. Registration legit. Tires ready to roll.
	He climbed in. The little pine tree air freshener made him hum "Jingle Bells." He slid the key in the ignition. The engine roared louder than the soundtrack of "Sons of Anarchy." Neighbors rushed to windows to see if a plane had overshot LaGuardia and landed in the gutter.
	He speed-dialed Honest Jack, who guessed it was the muffler. "Bring it back in," he said.
	"Are you sure it won't explode?" Ryan asked.
	"Nah, just don't go over 50," Honest Jack said.
	Ryan thought of having AAA tow his hell-mobile to the nearest mechanic. But he was in too deep to risk getting swindled. So he roared back onto the Cross Island to the Belt Parkway. This time, of course, traffic was zooming. But he stayed in the right lane with his hazard lights flashing, doing 50, the car making so much noise that other drivers slowed beside him to flip him the bird. Or to tell him that his car was really LOUD.
	"You don't say!" Ryan screamed.
	After Honest Jack put the vehicle up on the lift he looked at Ryan and said, "You're screwed."
	"Whaaaat?" Ryan shouted, still half-deaf from the ride.
	"Somebody slid under your car last night with an electric saw and cut out your catalytic converter," said Honest Jack. "And two oxygen sensors. They sell them to junkyards who sell them to people like you who have them robbed."
	Ryan never heard of a catalytic converter. But he sensed he'd need oxygen after asking, "How much?"
	"About $2,500," said Honest Jack. "Your insurance'll cover it. But you'll have to file a police report, eat the $1,000 deductible. And your rate will probably go up. You're gonna have to rent a car. But that's driving in New York City, pal."
	Real slick.