
	Guns don't kill people.
	Nine-year-old girls with ponytails and pink shorts on summer vacation do.
	Just ask the National Rifle Association. They will tell you that the 9-mm. Uzi submachine gun used by the Israeli military as a weapon of war and by sociopathic murderous drug cartels had nothing to do with the death of Charles Vacca, 39, in a shooting range in Arizona called Bullets and Burgers.
	Maybe they should just rename it GUNS R US — the "US" standing for the United States.
	I was reading about this sad and horrific incident right after I hung up with a father from Newtown, Conn., who talked about the first day of school in that wounded town 20 months after 26 innocents in a schoolhouse — 20 of them kids under 6 — were mowed down by a monster with a Bushmaster AR-15 semiautomatic rifle on Dec. 14, 2012. Another gun that didn't kill people.
	That's a day that will live in infamy for the cowardice Congress showed in the wake of those 26 funerals by killing any real gun-control legislation. The shills we elect to our do-nothing Congress to keep a check and balance on the executive branch are only concerned with the checks they receive from the NRA and the balance of their votes on Election Night every two years.
	Meanwhile, guns still plague America like an incurable social disease.
	The Brady Campaign To Prevent Gun Violence says an average of more than 100,000 people are shot in the U.S. every year, averaging 289 per day, of which 86 die, 30 are murdered, 53 kill themselves, two die accidentally, and one is shot in a police intervention. Between 2000 and 2010, a total of 335,609 people died from guns in America — more than the population of St. Louis.
	Handguns were used in 72.5% of our murders and manslaughter incidents in 2011; 4.1% with shotguns; 3.8% with rifles; 18.5% with unspecified firearms. Knives and other cutting instruments were used in 13.3% of homicides.
	But guns don't kill people. People do.
	And on Monday morning — as kids prepared to return to school the next day in Newtown — out in Arizona, a little girl from New Jersey on vacation with her parents entered the Bullets and Burgers shooting range in White Hills to learn how to shoot an Uzi.
	Located on 30 acres in the Mojave Desert about an hour outside Las Vegas, Bullets and Burgers is a Disneyland for gun nuts, luring trigger-happy tourists over age 8 to an "Outdoor Machine Gun Adventure" and a "Desert Storm atmosphere," "Our guests have the opportunity to fire a wide range of fully automatic machine guns and specialty weapons," its website boasts. "At our range, you can shoot FULL auto on our machine guns. . . . Let 'em Rip!"
	And R.I.P.
	Because on Monday morning, Charles Vacca, a veteran who posted pro-gun slogans on his Facebook page, practiced what he preached by teaching the 9-year-old the splendors of the Uzi as her parents shot video. First Vacca showed her how to shoot the Uzi in a single-shot mode. "Allll riiiight," shouts Vacca, wearing camouflage gear and dark shades.
	"All right, full auto," he then says, switching the Uzi submachine gun into the automatic mode Arnold Schwarzenegger uses when he blazes through an action flick.
	But the girl was no Arnold. And when she fired the Uzi with her skinny little arms the recoil racked the machine gun upward and to the left as the muzzle flamed. A bullet entered Vacca's head. He was airlifted to a local hospital but tragically died that night.
	Vacca leaves behind a shattered family that now knows what 26 families of Newtown experienced 10 days before Christmas 2012. They remained devastated and still too stricken to talk.
	"People can be cruel, we just want people to remember Charlie the right way," said a woman who identified herself as Vacca's mother-in-law on Wednesday when reached by The News.
	And the little girl who killed him must live with the images of deafening gunfire, blood and death as the highlight of what she did on her 2014 summer vacation.
	Awful. Shameful. Barbaric.
	But guns don't kill people; people kill people.
	Sometimes the person killed is a pro-gun Second Amendment enthusiast and military veteran who was a husband and father and by all accounts a well-liked fella. Sometimes the person who kills someone like Vacca is an innocent 9-year-old girl with a ponytail and pink shorts.
	Lock and load that image into the congressional chamber and let it rip.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? SEE THE VIDEO HERE.