
	Tuesday was the first day of school in Sandy Hook.
	I called one of the scores of people I met in that hemorrhaging Connecticut town in the aftermath of the horrific school shootings there on Dec.14, 2012, just to chat about how things were going.
	"Well back-to-school was bittersweet," said the Newtown father, asking for anonymity. "I watched my youngest board the bus. Watched his little face in the window. Waved goodbye as the bus left for the schoolhouse in Monroe as the new Sandy Hook schoolhouse is constructed. The old one, where the ... where it happened, was razed, as you know, and so ... "
	His voice trailed off into a whispery human ellipse like the 26 innocent lives that were left suddenly unfinished that awful day when the monster marched into Sandy Hook Elementary School with the loaded Bushmaster AR-15 semi-automatic rifle.
	"It was like last Dec. 14," the Newtown father said. "No media circus. Just town folk. We appreciated the respectfulness. We're not a story; we're a town. With families trying to put the ... trying to put the bad day in the rear view mirror. Looking ahead. Now for some of those who lost children or loved ones, there will always be a sad disconnect. They always nod hello, and look away, especially on a day like this when their kids should be starting another school year, two grades along."
	He paused for a moment, searching for the right words the way he'd searched that day of the shootings for his own kid in the hysteria outside Sandy Hook school. Like he located his kid that day, he found the words on the first day of school 2014.
	"But for the rest of us, after a week of your kids moaning, 'I don't wanna go back to schooooool,' you counted your blessings," he says. "You cherish this special day of family life. There are still six schools opened in Newtown. And there are police and armed guards — retired police officers hired for security — protecting the schools now. Heavy doors click automatically behind you. Cameras, ID checks, precautions galore. Which you want, of course. But it just reminds you of the day when ... "
	He left another sentence to expire unfinished, carted off to some cosmic Potter's Field.
	"Listen, people still talk about that day," he says. "It's not like we don't try to deal with it. There was a concert last week called Sandy Hook Town Chooses Love. Not a fund-raiser. Not a memorial. Just a day for good people to listen to good music. We celebrated the lives of those we lost by getting on with life."
	He paused again and chuckled in a soft ironic way.
	"I find peace in odd ways," he says. "I was walking through the old Zoar Cemetery off 34 the other day. Just looking at all these great old headstones, some dating back to the 1700s. And I thought, 'Ya know, like these people, you're gonna be dead for hundreds and hundreds of years. So you might as well have some fun as long as you're here.' That thought in a graveyard filled me with joy to be alive. Thankful for my wife and kids and the great friends I have in this wonderful town. Then as I walked for my car I noticed one beautifully decorated grave. It was a new grave of one of the kids lost that day when ... "
	Another sentence perished before it passed his lips.
	Then he talked of many people in Newtown who still struggle with the heavy cargo of post traumatic stress disorder. He sees it in the silent nods, shrugs and grimaces of people who are constantly reminded of the throbbing loss by birthdays, holidays, anniversaries, decorated graves, summer's golden end and the beautiful voices of children on the first day of school.
	"Some people here will carry the PTSD forever," he says.
	One guy he knows had a kind of PTSD breakdown. Went berserk in his house. Broke stuff. Peed himself. Took four paramedics to restrain him as he shouted, "Get the teachers! Save the kids!"
	The man woke up in a hospital with no memory of his PTSD-generated seizure. A few first responders who'd worked the gruesome Sandy Hook school shooting crime scene visited him. Said they understood exactly what he'd experienced.
	"They said it was like a two-year fever finally breaking," says the Newtown father. "He said he never felt better. He was free at last."
	Twenty months after the shootings he said that same father smiled as his kids started their first day of school in Sandy Hook.
	"Life has to go on, especially for the kids," says the Newtown father. "So you try to just look ahead and not back to that day when ... "