
	The hawks are circling again.
	This week they pounced on President Obama for saying he had "no plan yet" on dealing with Islamic State militants. These same warmongers hammered Obama for announcing his plan for withdrawal from Iraq and Afghanistan.
	He gets criticized if he reveals a plan and when he doesn't reveal a plan. Maybe this time Obama is keeping his cards close to his chest. Like when he and the CIA planned the killing of Osama Bin Laden. Was he supposed to announce that they were going to send in SEAL Team 6 to whack him?
	George W. Bush told us all about his plans of shock and awe before bombing Baghdad in retaliation for the 9/11 attacks, in which Saddam Hussein and Iraq played no role. Bush and his vice president, Dick Cheney, also insisted that Hussein was stockpiling weapons of mass destruction. They found no WMD. So they bragged about creating a "democracy" in Iraq. But this nation where Al Qaeda had no foothold under Saddam was soon flooded with radical Islamic jihadists.
	And now we are shocked, shocked that ISIS poses a new threat?
	Barack Obama was elected twice on a campaign promise to end the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Now he is criticized because he says he does not yet have a plan for war with ISIS.
	At this point, no plan for war is a good plan for America.
	But with two years left in his presidency, Obama even gets criticized for wearing a tan suit. He gets beat up for golfing after condemning the beheading of journalist James Foley. OK, so this was not the smartest of optics.
	But a recent story in the Daily Banter by Tommy Christopher and Michael Luciano listed the awful optics of President Ronald Reagan, the "Great Communicator," during major world crises.
	On Oct. 6, 1981, Reagan went horseback riding at Camp David on the day Egyptian President Anwar Sadat was assassinated; on Aug. 29, 1983, after two U.S. Marines were killed and 14 wounded in a mortar attack in Beirut, Reagan remained on vacation; on Sept. 1, 1983, Reagan remained on vacation after the Soviets shot down Korean Air Lines Flight 007; on Oct. 22, 1983, as the U.S. military readied the invasion of Grenada, Commander-in-Chief Reagan vacationed at the Augusta National Golf Club.
	The images of George W. Bush's "brush clearing" vacations at his Texas ranch as more than 4,000 brave American troops died in Iraq are too numerous to list.
	But after hammering Obama into the ropes for golfing, the war hawks smelled blood when the President said he did not yet have a plan on ISIS.
	Excuse me, but maybe that means Obama is actually thinking twice before sending any more American soldiers to die in a foreign war.
	After 12 years of war, the Sunday gasbag shows drooled with right-wing politicians salivating for yet more war. In Syria. In Iraq. In Ukraine. What the hell, let's invade North Korea, too.
	Sen. John McCain asked for more air strikes, advisers and Special Forces in Iraq. That sounds eerily reminiscent of the start of the Vietnam War. Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein says Obama was "too cautious" on ISIS.
	Excuse me, if her kid or grandson was in uniform ready to serve over there, would Obama be too cautious?
	Because not one of these cops-of-the-world mentioned the atrocious way our military men and women, who were cheered as heroes as they marched to Kabul and Baghdad, have been treated since they came marching, limping and wheeling themselves home.
	A half million of those heroes are homeless, one in five suffers from posttraumatic stress disorder and 22 commit suicide daily.
	On Labor Day weekend, to Obama's credit, unemployment among post 9/11 vets was at a vastly improved 6.8%.
	This should be Obama's primary "military" concern.
	How in the name of the red, white and blue can we dare ask another American soldier to serve in Syria or Iraq until we as a people serve our veterans fighting for survival at home?
	Forget another adviser or air strike in Iraq or Syria.
	Before we send another dime in foreign aid to any nation on Earth, we should make sure that every veteran in America has a home, medical attention, full benefits and a J-O-B.
	That would be good optics.