
	Time for justice.
	Following a week of vacation after covering two radioactive summer police killings in Staten Island and Ferguson, Mo., I tried looking at the cases from 35,000 feet.
	Now that the marches and protests are over, it's time to bring the Eric Garner and Michael Brown cases into courtrooms.
	Let the rhetoric, rioting, looting, outside radical agitators, curfews, commando cops and National Guard I witnessed in Ferguson become part of the backdrop of the killing of Michael Brown by Police Officer Darren Wilson.
	Let the pundits like myself who interviewed Garner's distraught wife the day after his killing and the passionate police union officials who support NYPD Officer Daniel Pantaleo all take quiet seats in the courtroom gallery.
	Time for justice.
	
	Both cases are now before grand juries. Hopefully, both produce indictments. Because only then can public trials search for truth in the best judicial system on Earth.
	We can still argue that Garner should have wound up in a courtroom charged with "suspicion" of selling loose cigarettes.
	And that Darren Wilson should have Tasered Michael Brown and placed him in handcuffs for his day in court for "walking in the middle of the street" in Ferguson. (And maybe Brown would have also been charged under Missouri law with the strong-arm robbery of a box of cigars.)
	
	But those trials will never happen because both black men were killed by white cops.
	Many want to make both cases about race. In Staten Island, Pantaleo will be shielded from this charge because there was a black female supervising sergeant on the scene who is not seen or heard intervening on the infamous Daily News video even as Garner repeatedly pleads, "I can't breathe!"
	In Ferguson, no video of the Brown killing has yet emerged. Eyewitnesses have reportedly given conflicting details of the events leading to Wilson firing six bullets — two in the head — into the unarmed Brown.
	The families of the dead, the cops involved, and the public need these trials.
	Time for justice.
	The Michael Brown killing in particular has ignited national outrage with protests in 80 cities about the abuse of police power. Many believe that abuse is racially motivated. And the bigoted cops in Ferguson caught tweeting race trash don't help the heroic, non-racist cops who make up the overwhelming majority of our cops from sea to shining blue sea.
	But be warned: Trials rarely give everyone what they want.
	The cops who beat Rodney King in that granddaddy of all police abuse videos were found not guilty at a California state criminal trial, triggering the worst riots America has seen since the 1960s.
	Those L.A. cops were later convicted and sentenced on federal civil rights charges.
	
	My first reaction after covering the 2006 police killing of an unarmed Sean Bell was that it looked like murder. But then came the trial. And I was swayed by evidence, as was the judge at the nonjury bench trial, that Bell's killing was not murder. Or even manslaughter.
	It was a colossal screwup by poorly trained and supervised undercover cops who failed to display their shields and panicked in the night in a high-crime neighborhood and got caught up in a case of contagious shooting.
	Those defendants, who like Bell, were all men of color didn't deserve to be cops. But the painstaking evidence from a parade of witnesses and experts proved that they were not murderers.
	In the case of Eric Garner, it will be hard for Daniel Pantaleo to free himself from the iron grip of that videotape showing him choking an unarmed, nonviolent man to death from behind. The second video of Pantaleo waving bye-bye to the camera as Garner lies lifeless on the sidewalk shows a man so unaffected by his violent actions that it might prove depraved indifference.
	But this is opinion, not evidence. And I am not a judge or juror.
	In the Brown case, jurors will sort through the testimony of conflicting eyewitnesses and forensic and medical experts. The whole country will be watching, as it did in the Trayvon Martin case. That one ended with an acquittal for George Zimmerman.
	Still, enough with the protests and the rhetoric.
	After covering these two cases of unarmed black men being killed less than a month apart in what many feel is a national pattern of excessive police force, the mail I receive and the people I talk to tells me we desperately need public trials.
	Time for justice.