
	Begorrah, let's hope both sides will forget the hard feelings.
	The old line about Irish Alzheimer's — "forgetting everything but the grudges" — could be buried next March 17, when a gay group will march behind its own banner in the St. Patrick's Day parade. And the march will be led by Timothy Cardinal Dolan himself.
	I'll drink an O'Doul's to that.
	The news came Wednesday, on what would have been my late mother Annie Devlin Hamill's 104th birthday. Somewhere, her Irish eyes are smiling because she was a devout Belfast Catholic immigrant who believed fiercely in human justice for all.
	Annie Devlin grew up knowing the bitter taste of bigotry in Belfast's Short Strand, where the Catholic minority suffered daily prejudice in schooling, policing, employment and social programs. She remembered when fire hoses and attack dogs were used on Catholics who dared protest their second-class citizenship. I saw her weep when she viewed fire hoses and German shepherds used on Freedom Marchers in America's Deep South.
	Annie Devlin was an early supporter of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., whose civil rights struggle became the template for the Irish Civil Rights Association. Thirteen members of the Irish group were killed by British troops on "Bloody Sunday," Jan. 30, 1972, as they marched peacefully in Derry.
	The slaughter helped trigger the rise of the Provisional Irish Republican Army and the Troubles, the 25-year armed struggle against British tyranny in Northern Ireland that ended when the Irish Catholic minority was at long last included at the peace table and in the government.
	During the Troubles, my mother proudly marched in New York's St. Patrick's Day parade behind anIrish Northern Aid Committee banner, supporting Irish Republican causes.
	In 2010, British Prime Minister David Cameron finally formally apologized for those 13 "unjustified and unjustifiable" Bloody Sunday murders.
	The quest for basic human equality spread into the Irish LGBT movement in New York, battling the intransigent parade committee's yearly refusal to allow gays to march under their own banner. But the groups found a sympathetic ear in Pope Francis. In July 2013, the pontiff said, "If someone is gay and he searches for the Lord and has good will, who am I to judge?"
	Last March 17, Mayor de Blasio refused to participate in a noninclusive parade. So did most of the City Council. Sponsors, including Heineken, Gillette and Westin, yanked endorsements. The backlash came to a frothy head when Guinness ended its sponsorship, saying: "Guinness has a strong history of supporting diversity and being an advocate for equality for all. We were hopeful that the policy of exclusion would be reversed for this year's parade."
	The Irish company and the other sponsors have stood firm. Ford Motors also threatened a boycott. And NBC, which broadcasts the parade, reportedly considered dropping its telecast if organizers continued to exclude gays.
	A compromise was struck. A gay group of NBC workers called OUT@NBCUniversal was invited to march behind its own proud banner in the St. Patrick's Day parade led by Grand Marshal Dolan on March 17, 2015.
	Somewhere, my mother is smiling as this last poisonous snake of bigotry is chased from the parade named for the patron saint of Ireland.
	Begorrah, let's hope everyone concerned can also forget the grudge.