
	FERGUSON, Mo. — It was the best of Ferguson. It was the worst of Ferguson.
	In a local church, people gave a standing ovation on Sunday afternoon to Capt. Ron Johnson of the Missouri Highway Patrol.
	But hours later on W. Florissant Ave. — near where Officer Darren Wilson killed unarmed Michael Brown with six bullets — Johnson was seen as the enemy.
	The difference is as clear as day and night.
	On Sunday afternoon, after a week of tears and tear gas, rioting and looting, the city of Ferguson needed a hero to cheer.
	So at 3 p.m., people packed the Greater Grace Church to hear firebrand Rev. Al Sharpton address a rally for justice.
	"I want to hear what he says about the cop who shot Michael Brown," said Minister Margie Binion, who was a nurse for 25 years before going legally blind. "About five years ago, a Ferguson policeman comes to the door of one of my patients, looking for her teenage grandson. He was a very nasty, very belligerent, very angry young policeman. His name was Darren Wilson. So when I heard he was the one who did the shooting, I wasn't at all surprised."
	In a town of 21,000, the world is very round and extremely small.
	"I have three sons aged 25, 23 and 18," adds Shalita Winters. "Shariff is 18, a month younger than Mike Brown. His killing made me extremely upset. Each time I became pregnant, I prayed for a girl because I did not want to raise black men in this country. They never get the benefit of the doubt by the police."
	So she came to hear Sharpton, hoping he might help bring change to Ferguson's police department that has just three black cops on a force of 53 in a town that is two-thirds black.
	The church soon overflowed with like-minded frightened mothers of young black men, spilling into the lobby and 2,000 strong out onto the church grounds to hear Sharpton and Martin Luther King III.
	Sharpton gave a passionate speech — but he had the misfortune of following Capt. Johnson who had walked to the stage and said, "My heart goes out to Mike Brown's family. I'm sorry."
	It was an extraordinary moment as this native son in his always crisp police uniform apologized to the parents of a black teenager killed by a white policeman.
	The people of Ferguson rose to their feet and exploded in applause. They needed a hero.
	But by 11 p.m., and a mile away, a small band of protesters again clashed with Capt. Johnson's highway cops.
	Police claim they were assaulted. They responded with tear gas.
	The disparity in attitudes between the church people and a minority of street people might support the theory that the violence has been initiated by a small band of hard-core outside agitators. Some are ghoulish looters exploiting a human tragedy.
	In Greater Grace Church, Shalita Winters and every other mother stood and applauded Capt. Johnson.
	"He's my nephew," said Brenda States. "Ron has always been so strong. After his own brother died in a motorcycle accident, he had the strength to deliver the eulogy."
	"He's my cousin," added Brenda McNairy. "I grew up with Ron Johnson as a role model. Ron was always the one to smooth out family feuds. Now he'll do that for Ferguson."
	Even Sharpton gave Ferguson's new top cop his props.
	"We heard tonight from Officer Johnson," Sharpton said. "We're not anti-police. We don't think they're all so bad."
	He was right.
	In a town torn apart by a police killing, the church people of Ferguson rose to their feet on Sunday to give a standing O to a policeman.
	By nightfall, Capt. Johnson's cops once again skirmished on the divided streets of Ferguson.
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.