
	FERGUSON, MO. — Joanna Gary parked her red Toyota Corolla on Canfield Drive and walked in the morning sunshine to a sidewalk memorial to her cousin Michael Brown, 18, who was killed by Police Officer Darren Wilson six days earlier.
	"I came to say a prayer for him," she says, standing over a mound of votive candles, floral bouquets and Teddy bears. "I know he went straight home to God. He was a quiet, very caring guy. He loved his music. Mike didn't talk much. He expressed himself in his rap music. He recorded his songs in his grandmother's house just up the block. Otherwise, he was kinda shy, always took a step back before talking."
	The description didn't match the intimidating man in the red St. Louis Cardinals baseball hat, white T-shirt and khaki shorts on a convenience store surveillance tape strong-arming a much smaller storekeeper as he marches off with a box of cigars. That tape was released by Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson only a half-hour earlier at a press conference, claiming the robber was Michael Brown.
	Jackson also identified 28-year-old Darren Wilson as the cop who shot and killed Brown.
	"I think the timing is a little bit suspicious," says Joanna Gary. "The Ferguson police refused to name the cop for a week. Then they release this video the same day they release the cop's name. The day after Capt. (Ron) Johnson of the highway patrol, who is black, took over command from Chief Jackson, who is white? That doesn't smell right."
	Capt. Johnson, who assumed state police control of security in Ferguson on Thursday night, would say later that Chief Jackson never gave him the courtesy of consulting him before releasing the robbery video.
	Richard Davis, 27, says cops had other options.
	"I heard the gunshots that night," Davis says. "I live across Canfield, up the block, and I heard pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop. Six at least. Now look, Michael Brown was a big black man, like me, and many people might have been intimidated by his size. If that's him in the video, what he did was wrong. But if you stop him, and he's unarmed, you can tase him, handcuff him, arrest him, bring him before a judge. No way should an unarmed man be shot dead over a box of cigars."
	According to Chief Jackson, Wilson didn't even know about the cigar robbery when he stopped Brown for blocking traffic on the street where he lived in this town of 21,000.
	Somehow that simple pedestrian traffic stop ended with Wilson shooting an unarmed teenager dead in a fusillade of police bullets.
	"I was in my car with my husband and my three kids coming up Canfield Drive that night," says Casey Fielder, 25, pushing her three daughters all under age 4 in a big wide stroller. She pauses outside Brown's grandmother's house, posted with a sign: "Privacy Please."
	"We were the first car stopped by other cops who'd rushed to the scene," she says. "Michael Brown lay there in the street, blood gushing from his head and body. My husband and I were horrified. We shielded the kids' eyes."
	She said her husband, who like her is white, later wondered aloud if he would have been shot dead if he'd been unarmed when stopped by a white cop.
	"We both said 'no,' " she says. "That's why I marched with our neighbors against this excessive-force killing."
	At his memorial, a steady stream of locals came to lay flowers and say prayers for Brown.
	"I have this theory that this cop who killed Mike must have had a bad day in his personal life," says Joanna Gary, his cousin. "And he took it out on Mike. Because that's no way to kill someone. When his hands are up. Unarmed. Shoot him maybe eight or 10 times. Crazy."
	She walked to her red Corolla, the back window scrawled with a message: "RIP Mike, Gone Too Soon, Love You."
	"Two days earlier Mike asked me for a ride like he always did and told me that the world would soon know his name," Gary says. "That his mom and grandmother would never have to worry about money again. He meant from his music. Two days later he was shot dead by this cop. Now the whole world knows about Michael Brown."
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.