
	FERGUSON, Mo. — The two women were friends from work. Laura, 27, is white, and Kat, 23, is black, and they came to Ferguson from their jobs at Half and Half in downtown St. Louis on Thursday evening to protest peacefully for justice.
	"We want the name of the police officer who shot and killed Michael Brown when he had his hands up in the air released," says Kat, referring to the Saturday killing of an 18-year-old black man that led to protests, looting and police tear-gassing protesters.
	"Then we want him arrested," says Laura.
	A magenta sun descended over this normally tranquil community of single-family homes and manicured lawns, where two-thirds of the 21,000 residents are black and the immaculate winding streets are patrolled by a 53-member police force — of which only three officers are black. The loud horns of passing traffic began to blare on Ferguson's main drag, Florissant Ave.
	"Most of the young white people I know in St. Louis are as outraged as the black community," says Laura. "The racism here is from the police."
	"And when people came to protest (Wednesday), the same police force that killed Michael Brown fired tear gas into the crowd," says Kat. "It looked like a scene from Baghdad. Plus, after they kill Michael Brown, they search all of his social media postings and post only those shots that portray him as some sort of hoodlum. We want justice."
	"Justice has no color," says Laura.
	On Florissant, a caravan of horn-honking cars proceeded up to Greater St. Mark's Baptist Church for a rally, and a stream of protesters held their hands up the way they said Michael Brown did on the day he was shot. As they passed the boarded-up fast food joints and auto parts stores, they chanted "No justice! No peace!"
	Standing on the sidewalk near Nesbit Drive, Joetta Umana watched with her neighbor Jewel Washington.
	"I have lived in Ferguson for 21 years," says Umana. "I have never seen anything like ... Wednesday night, when police fired the tear gas. They told us to go indoors. One said to me, 'Why do you want to be out anyway?' I told him because I live here and Michael Brown lived a block away."
	"The only time I ever saw anything like this was when I was a schoolgirl in Alabama, when Rev. Martin Luther King was marching," she says. "They attacked his marches with fire hoses and dogs and tear gas, too. But that was 1965 in Alabama. This is 2014 in St. Louis. It's outrageous. They made us prisoners in our own homes."
	"That tear gas really stung the eyes and made you choke really bad," says Umana.
	"I'm against the violent ones, the looters," says Washington. "I bring my car to the auto mechanic whose window they broke. I shop at the Quik Stop. But that was Monday and Tuesday. (Wednesday) night they were peaceful, and then they used the tear gas. It was terrible. I had my 30-year-old grandson at my house, I wouldn't let him go outside. You can lose a son or a grandson."
	In 2014, with the first black President two years into his second term, suddenly Ferguson, Mo., becomes the new Selma. Umana and Washington agree Obama could never have won without tens of millions of whites voting for him.
	"That's true," says Umana. "But it only takes a few, a handful, to ignite the racism again."
	"I lived here 21 years, too, and I never knew that Ferguson only has three black officers," says Washington. "Now that just isn't right."
	By night's end, Missouri Highway Patrol Capt. Ron Johnson had taken over Ferguson security, ordered cops to bag the gas masks, and then marched with the protestors. Authorities also said they would release the name of the cop who killed Michael Brown.
	This helped ease tensions. But it didn't end them.
	On Nesbit Drive, Kat and Laura walked toward their car to go to another rally in Smith Square in downtown St. Louis. There, young people, black and white, many from George Washington University, would be signing a petition asking for justice in the Michael Brown case.
	"It's not about black and white," says Kat.
	"It's about police abusing their power," Laura says as the women head downtown, with night falling like a shiver across Ferguson.