
	New Yorkers remember 9/11 every day.
	For those of us who lived here through the terror attacks and their haunting aftermath, 9/11 has become a permanent part of the DNA of New York City. You see it, feel it, remember it, think and talk of it all through every year.
	The ball drops in Times Square on New Year's Eve, and New Yorkers worry about some terrorist looking to take the lives of innocents with him to "paradise" like the skyjackers of 9/11.
	In March, a 16-year-old kid slips by security and gets up to the top of the Freedom Tower, and New Yorkers think about how he could have had a bomb and our thoughts collectively flash back to 9/11. A few days later, three men surrender for parachuting off the Freedom Tower the September before.
	In April, I run into Police Commissioner Bill Bratton and PBA President Patrick Lynch along the Boston Marathon route. They are showing support for Beantown, which is marking the previous year's terror bombing with a defiant outpouring of "Boston Strong" T-shirts. New Yorkers embrace sports rival Boston in a blood brotherhood forged in American terrorism, remembering 9/11.
	In May, the National 9/11 Memorial Museum opens and the whole city reflects in thought, memory and prayer.
	In June, I visit an ailing friend named Russ Sullivan in Sandy-ravaged Breezy Point, Queens, where I'm reminded of so many from the Rockaways who perished on 9/11. I also think of Sullivan's son Thomas, who escaped from the 96th floor of the south tower where scores of his Fiduciary Trust co-workers died. The next day Thomas was called up by the Army Reserves and was soon deployed to Iraq.
	In July, at the funeral of FDNY Lt. Gordon Ambelas on Staten Island, who died in the line of duty, I run into Tommy and Mike Brunton of the FDNY Emerald Society Pipes and Drums. Their brother Capt. Vinny Brunton, of Ladder 105, was killed on 9/11. As Tommy mourned his brother after 9/11, he played scores of other post-9/11 firefighter funerals. And as Ambelas' body was carried from the church 13 years later, the wailing pipes and thumping drums made it impossible not think of 9/11.
	In the final days of August, I walked with my brother Pete through downtown Manhattan, west to the tireless Hudson River and down past the haunting Irish Famine Memorial. Families played Frisbee on the verdant lawns of the nearby park. Young lovers kissed on benches in the gloaming. Sailboats whispered by. Then rising before us from an aching hole in our collective heart the Freedom Tower shimmered, reflecting the lost souls and indelible memories of 9/11.
	As September school bells clanged, I received an email from my Brooklyn grammar school buddy Kevin Burns, a Vietnam vet who came marching home from war to homelessness and then rose to astounding success as a West Coast real estate agent. On Sept. 11, 2001, Burns emailed me asking what I could find out about his sister Peggy, who was a Cantor Fitzgerald receptionist. I embraced Kevin a month later at a memorial service in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, for vanished Peggy.
	The loss of 9/11 is forever in this town. Every day in New York in some way or another is connected to 9/11.
	On Monday, Danny Gorman, a retired firefighter, spoke of his brother Jerry, an FDNY chief. "On 9/11, he woke up his three sons and two daughters in Staten Island and they all raced to Ground Zero," remembers Danny, who has lost eight brothers to cancer. "Jerry was really sick after a liver transplant. Still he took his three sons who were firemen and his daughters, both nurses, to work in the dust." Jerry Gorman dug for signs of life with his sons Michael, now a battalion chief, and Patrick, now a captain, and Brendan, now retired, as his daughters, Margaret and Mary, nursed the sick and maimed.
	"Jerry worked down there for weeks," says Danny. "It probably helped kill him faster. But he did what his heart told him. I miss him every day."
	As the 13th commemoration of 9/11 approaches, President Obama will address the nation Wednesday about his plans to defeat the Islamic militants of ISIS.
	In New York City on Thursday we will honor our 9/11 dead as we do here every single day.