
	Respectful.
	That was the word that you felt and heard most at the National September 11 Memorial  Museum the day before the 13-year anniversary of the terror attacks.
	"It's always like this," one worker whispered. "People come here to pay their respects. And so it is respectful. Once in a while, a child might throw a tantrum. But the adults never cause problems or act inappropriately. The very nature of the place humbles you and makes you honor the dead."
	The worker was right.
	A 90-minute walk through the museum on Wednesday was so quiet you could hear the hearts around you breaking. No one took smiling selfies before the In Memoriam wall. No one stood for goofy snaps in front of the Ladder 3 truck that carried FDNY Capt. Paddy Brown and his crew of brave firefighters to their deaths that awful day.
	No one wore 9/11 T-shirts.
	"It's very respectful," said Kim Huerta, from the San Francisco Bay area, pausing to gaze at the faces of the anguished escapees of the towers in an exhibit called Voices. "I needed to come here because my son Seth was in a Coast Guard icebreaker in the New York Harbor that day. He remembers the planes roaring in so low that he could feel the wind rushing off them. He saw them smash into the towers. His vessel helped evacuate people from the towers to New Jersey."
	She says her son was deeply affected by the carnage, by the sobs of the escapees, by the magnitude of this act of war on the homeland.
	"He drank a lot after that," she says. "He never talked much about 9/11. He got sober three years ago. And so I needed to come here today to see some of what he saw. I want to pay my respects. And I am happy to see how respectful everyone here is too. I saw only one person texting so far."
	"It's like being in church," said her friend Carla Heise. "Everyone whispers. I did see people acting inappropriately outside of Ground Zero when it was still walled in on a previous visit. People selling souvenirs. Tourists posing for pictures, talking and laughing. But not in here. No one is disrespectful in here."
	You wander further through the hushed museum as people stop to watch a slide show of posters of the missing that float by like living ghosts of history.
	"We were looking for St. Paul's Church," says Rhea Burmeister, visiting with husband Erik from the Netherlands. "But we found this museum first. So we came in. It's like being in church anyway."
	"Respectful," says Erik. "It's a terrible moment in history and they have done a very good job capturing it. It's much emptier than you'd expect. We just walked up and bought tickets and came in."
	Do they feel that the museum has become like another tourist attraction like Times Square, the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty?
	"Absolutely not," says Erik Burmeister. "It's my first visit to New York and I am very impressed and moved by how solemn everyone is."
	"It certainly is not a tourist trap," says Rhea Burmeister. "It's a spiritual experience. I understand that terrible day better now. But I still want to go to St. Paul's to say a prayer for all these lost souls."
	Down the corridor, a museum worker standing before a twisted column explains to a spellbound crowd how the ferocious impact of the planes knocked the fireproofing from the exterior steel support columns. Then the roaring jet-fuel inferno weakened and bent and buckled the steel, causing the floors to collapse onto each other like dominoes.
	Then the guide points to a lone woman standing at the edge of a hole created in the 92nd floor of the north tower by hijacked American Airlines Flight 11. Like 200 others, the worker explains, the woman either fell or jumped to her death.
	"A lot of the families of the dead will come this afternoon," said one worker. "That will be very emotional. Sometimes it still brings tears to my eyes. But this memorial couldn't be any more tasteful. The visitors couldn't be more respectful to the dead."
	On Thursday, the nearly 3,000 names of the fallen will be heard again.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com