
	When I heard Robin Williams had killed himself, I cherished life.
	One of the first things I did was email Barry Levinson, who'd directed Williams in "Good Morning, Vietnam," his best performance, in my book, to say how sorry I was that he'd lost such a dear friend.
	Levinson replied: "Terrible news. It's hard to know what happens in those dark private moments. He will be missed. A great guy."
	Everybody in America was reading about Williams or watching film clips. Even President Obama offered his appreciation for this man who made the world laugh.
	Few saw the private tears of the clown.
	Then I dug out my college copy of the "Myth of Sisyphus" by Albert Camus, the first paragraph of which stays with you for life. Or until you take it.
	"There is but one truly serious philosophical problem and that is suicide. Judging whether life is or is not worth living amounts to answering the fundamental question of philosophy. All the rest — whether or not the world has three dimensions, whether the mind has nine or twelve categories — comes afterwards. These are games; one must first answer."
	Robin Williams answered with a belt around his neck.
	I never met Williams. Doesn't matter. He met all of us. I sat with my kids years ago watching "Aladdin," listening to him ad lib 52 separate characters that whirled out of a genie's magic smoke that resembled Robin Williams' brilliant mind.
	That experience, seeing that film with my laughing kids in a darkened Brooklyn theater, is a cherished memory of my life. So Williams lives on in me, and countless millions of other perfect strangers.
	News of his suicide made me reel back to a pal named Glenn from my old Brooklyn stomping ground who in his late 20s was living in Jersey — alone, jobless, depressed — and answered Camus' philosophical question by placing a shotgun in his mouth.
	Then I thought of another friend named Danny, the funniest bartender you ever met until one day he said goodbye to his wife in Staten Island and drove to the Brooklyn tower of the Verrazano Bridge and simply jumped.
	No one knows why.
	And as the cable news played, I thought of all the Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who return, unappreciated, suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, hundreds of thousands of them jobless, homeless, hopeless. According to the Veterans Affairs Department, some 22 Iraq and Afghanistan vets take their own lives every day in the war back home.
	I also thought of countless underpaid, underappreciated cops who "eat the gun" because of the ferocious stress of the job while struggling to support a family in New York on a civil service salary.
	Some 30,000 people — most we never heard of — kill themselves in America every year. That's the equivalent of 100 jumbo jets crashing. More people die of suicides than homicides or car accidents every year.
	As TV shrinks talked about depression I came out of my own post-Williams suicide blues by cherishing life.
	I remembered that earlier this year my older brother Pete was pretty sick in the hospital. One doctor told his wife that he'd never awaken from his coma-like state and urged her to sign a "do not resuscitate" order. Another doc said if Pete did awaken by some miracle, it might be time to think about "making him comfortable," code words for long-term care where the final injection is usually formaldehyde.
	My brother's wife refused to sign the DNR.
	Two days later Pete was wide awake, asking about the Mets — who were closer to death than him.
	Three nights before Robin Williams died, I sat with my brothers Pete, John and Brian at the sidewalk patio of Pepolino's Restaurant on West Broadway. Pete ate a bowl of black linguini, wearing a T-shirt given to him by the late great novelist Elmore Leonard bearing the legend: "Not now — I'm writing."
	On a gorgeous summer evening, Pete gabbed with us about politics, sports, war and family as the tireless parade of New York City passed us in a celebration of life.
	Which is how he answered Camus' timeless question.
	Three days later, Williams chose a different answer.
	On a mobile device? Click here to watch video.