
	The vast majority of our cops do amazing work in this city.
	They have one of the toughest jobs in town. They are our first responders — rushing into disaster scenes like the terror attack on the World Trade Center. They talk emotionally disturbed people off bridge towers, quash dangerous domestic battles and risk their lives daily for a city that many can't afford to live in.
	Because they are often seen as the enemy in high-crime precincts, some cops have developed an "us against them" mentality. So under the mighty badge and the bulletproof vest, it's understandable there are some thin skins.
	When a cop like Officer Daniel Pantaleo is caught on video chokeholding a suspect who then dies and the public is outraged, it's understandable that our cops become defensive.
	Especially after the medical examiner's office ruled the death a homicide.
	Rather than admit that one of their own messed up big time, the cops want to blame the press or the community.
	This is too bad because the vast majority of our cops are so damned vital, heroic, and, yes, underappreciated.
	Just like planes that don't crash rarely make news, the good things our cops do thousands of times a day usually go unreported and uncelebrated.
	The Rev. Al Sharpton never leads marches to thank a cop who saved someone's life.
	When a cowboy cop abuses his power, the press and the community make noise. And the 35,000 cops who perform their duties properly — often above and beyond the call of duty — feel tarnished.
	So it's important that as Mayor de Blasio and Police Commissioner Bill Bratton hold meetings with the likes of Sharpton — found liable for slandering an upstate prosecutor in the fake and phony Tawana Brawley case — that the good our cops do every day gets at least half the attention that Pantaleo is getting.
	I often write about a retired narcotics detective named Pat Russo who runs Cops and Kids Boxing programs in gyms in tough neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Staten Island. Russo and NYPD Boxing Team members teach inner-city kids the sweet science as an alternative to gangs, drugs and the violence of the street.
	"There's no way to calculate how many crimes don't happen because of our gyms," Russo says.
	Russo's daily heroic work never makes headlines.
	Several years ago, I reported on a policewoman named Susan Porcello from Brooklyn's 68th Precinct who answered a routine call and discovered an old World War II Marine veteran living alone. She made him her surrogate grandfather, placed him in the best nursing home in Brooklyn, cooked for him and eventually paid for his funeral out of her own blue-pants pocket.
	I don't know a single journalist or politician who has done something like that.
	The same month that Eric Garner died on Staten Island, a cop on his way to work pulled a suicidal man off the subway tracks in Brooklyn. The same month Officer Joel Edouard allegedly stomped the face of a handcuffed prisoner in Brooklyn, a brave cop was shot and wounded while taking down a fugitive pedophile in Manhattan. The same month a pregnant woman was restrained for grilling on a sidewalk, a cop got punched in the face by a Spider-Man character in Times Square.
	Brave cops deserve as many cheers as the cowboy cops get jeers.
	When the headlines are filled with cops who cross the line into excessive force, we forget the officer who bought the homeless man a pair of shoes in Times Square. Or Officer Dennis Guerra, who died trying to save lives in a Coney Island fire.
	When Bratton orders retraining for 35,000 cops, it isn't punishment. It's progress.
	If better-trained cops become part of Eric Garner's legacy, he didn't die in vain.
	When I interviewed him recently, Bratton couldn't praise his cops enough.
	I think the public and the press owe the cops who police our streets an occasional round of applause the way some passengers do when a plane lands safely.
	I think we should remember that like planes that crash, the Staten Island and Brooklyn incidents are big news because they're the exceptions.
	And that the vast majority of our cops do unsung and courageous work every day.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com