
	She was right.
	The day after Eric Garner died during a violent arrest in Staten Island, I interviewed his distraught widow Esaw who said, "They killed him."
	And while no one has been charged, it appears the medical examiner agreed with the wife.
	The coroner ruled that the banned chokehold administered by a cowboy cop named Daniel Pantaleo compressed Eric Garner's windpipe, and after he wheezed his final desperate pleas of "I can't breathe! I can't breathe!"
	The chokehold caused him to die on the sidewalk at Victory Blvd. and Bay St. Asthma and obesity were contributing factors. But if Pantaleo hadn't wrapped his arm around Garner's neck, he would not have died. The medical examiner called it homicide.
	I called Esaw Garner to ask if she had heard the news.
	"Thank God the truth is finally out," Esaw Garner said with a sigh. "Thank God for that."
	Now comes the hard part for Pantaleo and Garner's wife and six kids and for the city. There could be a nasty trial.
	There will be the usual rabble rousers trying to inflame the mostly peaceful city with renewed racial divisions. Many cops will understandably rally behind one of their own and retreat into a cocoon of "us against them." And no matter which way the verdict eventually falls, this one will set the city back.
	There are a few other things that need to be said before a possible trial starts.
	Pantaleo might be a macho cop who used a forbidden chokehold, but no way do I believe he went out that morning with the intention of killing Eric Garner. So this wouldn't be a second-degree murder trial. It will probably be a charge of manslaughter, negligent homicide, or depraved indifference.
	The other thing for all reasonable New Yorkers to keep in mind is that this was not a racially fueled hate crime. Yes, Pantaleo is a white cop and Garner is a dead black man. But the supervising sergeant in charge at that crime scene was a black woman. That makes it hard to believe this was a racially motivated crime.
	Most of the cops in the video take a cautious approach to arrest a well-known, nonviolent petty criminal who sold Newports on the corner. Then one overly aggressive cowboy cop attacked him from the rear with a cowardly chokehold that the medical examiner says was an act of homicide.
	Let's hope as Bill Bratton sends 35,000 cops to be retrained that they teach the crucial lesson that cowboy cop tactics on the streets of New York can lead to an officer being charged with murder.
	That's another truth that could soon come out of Eric Garner's tragic death.