
	It's been a tough stretch for Police Commissioner Bill Bratton.
	First there was the death of Eric Garner after Police Officer Daniel Pantaleo appeared to grab the father of six in a chokehold prohibited by the NYPD. It was captured on video.
	This brought community protests and investigations by the NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau and the Staten Island district attorney's office. The feds are on standby.
	Then came the bizarre planting of white flags atop the towers of the Brooklyn Bridge as NYPD patrol cars sat parked at either end of the span.
	I reached out to Bratton to see if he cared to reflect on one of the worst periods of his second tour as commissioner. He invited me up to his office at 1 Police Plaza on Thursday, the day after Garner's funeral.
	"I can't speak directly to that case, which is under investigation," Bratton said. "I can speak to how we move forward from it. ... One of the things we're focusing on is training. And learning from this tragic experience that there are better ways of doing things than what we currently teach."
	How will that work exactly?
	The answer seemed to be a combination of the cutting edge and the old-fashioned.
	"I've put together a steering committee to oversee that process," he said. "It's made up of a number of different areas of the department, but particularly the Police Academy. Next week I'm sending a team of six people out to Los Angeles to spend three or four days with the LAPD. The LAPD spent 10 years under a federal consent decree that was specifically focused on their use of force and how to change that use of force to make sure that it was the state of the art."
	Bratton implemented many of the changes himself when he was Los Angles police chief from 2002 to 2009.
	"I want our people to see what they're doing and see how NYPD matches up. Additionally, several of those members will go down to Las Vegas, where my good friend Sheriff Doug Gillespie had a similar incident as in Staten Island. And out of that incident they developed a whole new process for how to restrain someone without using a chokehold."
	What is it?
	"He suggested we take a look at lateral vascular neck restraints," says Bratton, referring to a type of hold that doesn't compress the airway.
	Bratton then referred to the late Jack Maple, his previous first deputy commissioner, saying he wants cops to learn ways of not having to use force.
	"There's a term called 'verbal judo,' meaning how to talk people down." said Bratton. "One of the things the NYPD has become very successful in is dealing with emotionally disturbed people or EDPs. We average three or four calls a day where our Emergency Service Units are summoned by our patrol officers for EDPs, who oftentimes barricade themselves inside an apartment. What is not widely known is how frequently and successfully we talk them out. Without injuring them. Without initiating the use of force."
	I mention a great Brooklyn street cop of my youth named Tommy Doyle who, when he caught under-age kids drinking, would tell us to scram. He'd threaten to arrest us if we were still there in 15 minutes. We always scrammed.
	Couldn't this have worked with Eric Garner, who was being busted for selling loose cigarettes?
	"Our police need better training in the use of discretion," Bratton said. "What you just described is a basic tool of a cop. You can admonish, cite, arrest, or use force to make an arrest if there's resistance. I think what has happened to a lot of our officers is that in the push to get stop, question and frisk numbers they have lost the power of discretion. They need to be reminded that they don't have to make an arrest in every instance. The law does empower them to use discretion. Some of this starts at the top. Cops thinking that all we're looking for is numbers. What I'm looking for are results. If an admonition of 'Get lost,' is gonna work, use it. If it doesn't work, move it up to the next level."
	How do you retrain 35,000 cops?
	"We will prioritize our 18,000 patrol officers," he said. "There is going to be a significant cost. But I think the public is gonna demand it and I think the political leadership of the city is gonna support it. Certainly the mayor supports it."
	How long will it take?
	"Over the next 60 days, we will have gathered up the latest state-of-the-art practices," Bratton said. "The steering committee will then determine how long the new training will take. Is it a day? Two days? And take into account the number of officers. The great news is that we have a brand new $700 million state of the art Police Academy in College Point, Queens, opening this fall."
	I told him that outside Eric Garner's wake, an African-American woman from Harlem told me, "They finally ended stop and frisk. Now it's stop and kill."
	"Unfortunately, there's a fundamental misunderstanding that stop, question and frisk has ended," Bratton said, blaming the false impression for a dramatic increase in the number of suspects resisting arrests. "It has not ended. It's still a basic tool of policing in our democracy. But the concern that Mayor de Blasio campaigned on, and what I expressed, was that there was too much of it. And in many instances it might not have been done appropriately because of lack of training and lack of supervision. So we still do stop, question and frisk but a lot less of it.
	"Similarly, enforcing of low-level quality of life crimes, broken-window policing, added another tool to American big city policing. It is not going away. It cannot go away. If it did, this city would quickly revert to what it was in the late-1980s. My motto is 'If a cop sees something, do something.'"
	How quickly can change be realized?
	"This is not something that can be fixed overnight," Bratton says. "And I don't have a ballpark figure how much it will cost yet, but it will be an investment that will pay great dividends in better race relations, better relations between the police and the community, and in improving the confidence of the police in terms of their skills and abilities. This can be a win, win, win for everybody concerned."
	What's the takeaway from the Eric Garner incident?
	"In the area of race relations, policing can worsen or improve them," he says. "One of the reasons I went to the LAPD was to improve race relations between the police and the minority community. And we did."
	What's up with the flags on the Brooklyn Bridge?
	Deputy Commissioner of Intelligence "John Miller is leading that investigation," Bratton said. "At this juncture, we still don't know who did it. We have strengthened security around all the bridges."
	What did we learn from it?
	"We quickly learned that there are not enough cameras on some of these bridges," Bratton said. "There are more cops assigned out there now. Just as we learned a lot from the guy who parachuted off the Freedom Tower, we'll learn a lot from the Brooklyn Bridge breach of security."
	Bratton wrapped up.
	"I've been doing this for 45 years and I learn from every incident like the Staten Island one," he said. "But this is an extraordinary police department, the best in the world. That's not to say we don't make mistakes. We certainly do. But this department will learn from its mistakes. And in this Staten Island matter we are going to go where the truth takes us in a very transparent f ashion."