
	The men and women who rush into burning buildings to save our lives gather in the thousands on leafy Nelson Ave. in Staten Island under a sticky July sky.
	Out of the dress blue, I'm greeted by a firefighter named Eddie Heegan of Ladder 153 in Gravesend who grew up with my older kids in Brooklyn. He's here for the funeral of FDNY Lt. Gordon Ambelas, who died heroically last week in a high-rise blaze in Williamsburg.
	I ask Heegan how he's doing. He tells me he got married a year ago. I whisper congratulations.
	"Yeah, Lt. Ambelas' wake and funeral brought back a flood of emotions for my wife, Linda," he says, reminding me how deep the unique FDNY brotherhood goes. She was the widow of Firefighter Joe Graffagnino, one of the firefighters who died in the Deutsche Bank Building fire in 2007. She belongs to a group of fire widows and she went to the wake for Gordon Ambelas and met his widow. It brought up a lot of emotions.
	Emotions charge the whole block now, as an officer calls the men to attention, a rigid blue fire line as Ambelas' cortege is led by five police motorcycles and one radio car with flashing lights. Then comes two gleaming fire engines from Tower Ladder 119 and Ladder 81, where Ambelas had served his city as a first responder, risking and finally giving his life to save others.
	The door of each firetruck is inscribed: "In loving memory of Lt. Gordon Ambelas." The street is now as quiet as eternity. The procession stops at the small, squat, red brick Church of St. Clare.
	Heroes like this aren't born. They are not taught. They discover themselves in the furnaces of human peril, revealed in that space between tick and tock where most of us flee for safety and a rare few delve deeper into the belly of the beast to help others.
	Gordon Matthew Ambelas discovered he was one of the rarest of human beings. One who cared more for others than he did for his own safety.
	And that's why, as Ambelas' family and close friends empty from the fire transport vans, many wear T-shirts bearing his handsome, smiling face and a perfect legend: "He lived the way he died — a hero."
	They file into the church, many already weeping for this knight of the city who leaves a wife and two young children.
	On the door of one fire transport wagon is a memorial to "FF Michael Kieffer, Ladder 132, 9-11-01 . . . still helping others."
	You feel again in that moment the fierce brotherhood of these firefighters who live a high-wire life that includes a daily dance with death. You feel it even deeper as the pipers wail "Amazing Grace," which lifts from this drowsy street in Great Kills and spreads across Staten Island where Ambelas lived. The mournful air wafts across the narrows on the stingy summer breeze, pealing across Brooklyn and out toward the wounded Rockaways and whipping off toward that solemn place in lower Manhattan where the darkest day in the city's and the FDNY's history happened 13 Septembers ago.
	As the church doors close, the firefighters break ranks and greet each other with a special life-affirming embrace.
	I ask Eddie Heegan how his wife, who lost one husband to firefighting found her own courage, to marry another firefighter.
	"I dunno. We met several years after her loss, and got to talking and she said she knew she shouldn't spend her whole life in mourning," he says. "She had two beautiful kids, Mia and Joe, and I asked her to go to a concert with me in Prospect Park. We went. We had fun. We fell in love. And last year we got married. She kept her Graffagnino name, to honor Joe, and for her kids . . . I'm raising these beautiful kids but Joe will always be their dad. I want them to know what kind of honorable life he led and that he died a hero."
	Inside the church, they were giving eulogies and saying prayers for another hero named Lt. Gordon Ambelas. Outside, Eddie Heegan, who was raising a hero's kids, had come to pay his respects for a fallen FDNY brother.
	"When I leave for work and tell her I love her and say, 'See you later,' we both know that maybe we won't," he says of his wife. "Same with Gordon Ambelas. What happened to him that day could happen to any of us any day. "
	Then he gazes around Nelson Ave., which is a blue brotherhood honoring a fallen hero named Lt. Gordon Ambelas.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com