
	Denise from Harlem in the orange summer dress said, "They finally ended stop-and-frisk, and now it's stop-and-kill."
	Three other women nodded as they perspired behind a police barricade up the block from Eric Garner's wake at Bethel Baptist Church on Bergen St. in Brooklyn on Wednesday afternoon. Garner, 43, died last Thursday afternoon after a cop named Daniel Pantaleo applied a chokehold to his neck in Tompkinsville, Staten Island, as he was being arrested for suspicion of selling "loosies" cigarettes.
	The women had come to pay their respects to Garner, whose senseless death, recorded on video, has galvanized the city.
	"The video where the paramedic takes his pulse and does nothing else is just as disgusting as the one where the cop kills him," said a Pace University nursing student who preferred anonymity, but who sported an American Red Cross T-shirt with the legend: "Help Save Lives, Choose Your Day."
	"She didn't even perform CPR or give mouth to mouth," said the student.
	"They just killed him and let him lay there," said Mary Hickman, a Garner family friend. "That cop who choked him gotta go. They all gotta go. I was with Eric's wife last night in Staten Island. . . . She's realizing that Eric's gone forever now."
	"They didn't put the paddles on his chest to bring him back to life," said a home nursing aide who also preferred to remain nameless. "Nothing. If that was a cop who was lying on the ground, they would have done everything to revive him."
	These are the angry voices echoing across the city in response to the two shocking videos of Garner's death. The one with the chokehold is like a snuff movie. The second one of the indifferent police and paramedics and the chokehold cop, Pantaleo, waving in a gloating way as Garner lies lifeless on the sidewalk shows an almost sociopathic abuse of power.
	"They are pictures of truth," says Garner family lawyer Sanford Rubenstein.
	It's clear that there still exists in the NYPD a hard-core, old-school fringe minority of cowboy cops who think this is pre-Knapp Commission New York City, where you could mistreat "perps, skells and mutts" committing the most minor offenses like protesters in Tiananmen Square. This time, the "perp" died in living color. Inside the church, mourners filed past the gleaming white casket where Eric Garner lay in a brilliant white suit amid bouquets of gorgeous white roses — as if celebrating his bright, short, happy life instead of his dark violent death.
	"I called him Big Man," says Trish McClean, wearing a T-shirt scrawled with graffiti memorializing Garner's life and death, including "I Can't Breathe," the words he repeated as the cops held him down.
	"Big Man was my best friend. . . . He was the happiest, gentlest, most generous guy around. And they just killed him on suspicion of selling Newports. He wasn't selling no Newports. But they assumed he was, and for that they put Big Man in a chokehold that put him in that coffin."
	The chokehold has been banned by the NYPD for two decades, but here comes this eight-year veteran Pantaleo, who is in absolutely no immediate physical danger on the video, chokeholding Garner from behind.
	In the old days of Brooklyn, where Garner was raised and was now having his funeral, my older brothers used to send me to Mr. B's candy store for three loosies. This was in the 72nd Precinct, where we had a cop named Tommy Doyle who was the sheriff of Park Slope.
	If Doyle caught you drinking beer underage, he'd confiscate it and say, "Scram. I'll be back in 15 minutes. If any of yiz are still here, you're going through the f---ing system."
	We'd scram.
	I thought about Doyle when I watched that video of Pantaleo choking Garner. I wondered what would have happened if a seasoned cop like Doyle had said, "Eric, scram. If you're here in 15 minutes, you're going into the system."
	Eric Garner probably would have gone home to his wife, Pinky, who was watching "The People's Court," porkchops simmering on the stove.
	And Eric Garner's six kids would still have a father today, instead of a corpse in a white casket heading for the cemetery.