
	She watched the shocking footage of her husband being subdued by Staten Island cops for the first time on Friday — unable to stomach it the night before.
	Esaw Garner watched the video through eyes reddened by tears. It wasn't any better for the widow in the morning.
	"I couldn't watch the video of my husband being taken down last night," she said. "I was too upset. I never slept. I watched it this morning and I got even more upset."
	It was clear to her what happened to her husband, Eric Garner, outside a beauty shop in Tompkinsville.
	"They killed him," she said. "They choked him and took him down and I could hear him screaming that he couldn't breathe. It was so hard to watch. He was a nonviolent gentle giant and they killed him."
	
	Pinky, as the widow is affectionately known, sat in a relative's living room, wearing pink sneakers and a pink top. She stared out at the Manhattan skyline on what would have otherwise been a perfect summer day.
	"He has two grandkids who love him to death," she says of her husband. "Every time he walks into the room they scream 'Pop-Pop and Ganpa.' He was great to me and his six kids. And a wonderful grandfather."
	
	She said her husband was 6-foot-5 and weighed over 300 pounds and loved to eat. He could be as loud as she was when they argued.
	"But his bark was always bigger than his bite," she says.
	On Thursday morning, Eric gave Pinky $400 and told her to get groceries for the house and then went to his corner of Bay St. and Victory Blvd. where he made his living selling bootleg cigarettes, $7 a pack and 75 cents for loosies. On the street he was known simply as "E."
	At home Pinky called him Bear.
	They met on one of those late-night area code 900 party lines that were popular in the 1980s.
	
	"Out of all the guys on the call I liked what he was saying most," she says, smiling at the memory. "I gave him my private number and asked him to call me. We met the day before he left for school at Ohio Diesel Tech in September 1988. We had a great time together and he said he'd see me after not too long. But I thought I would never see him again."
	But a few days before Christmas that year Pinky's doorbell rang in the Bronx.
	"I ran downstairs and there he was," she says. "I told him I was pregnant by another man who was no longer in my life."
	When Eric Garner said he'd happily raise the child, he won Pinky's heart.
	"I fell in love with him right then," she says.
	
	Together they had five more kids. Their oldest boy, Eric Jr., 18, just graduated from Curtis High and got a basketball scholarship to Essex County College.
	"We had a wonderful marriage," she says. "Sure we had our problems. We separated once. But we never stopped loving each other and got back together."
	He had his flaws. Some of them were endearing.
	"Was he perfect? No. He ate too many peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and Oreos and cookies at night," she says. "He snored like a bear but I couldn't sleep unless I could hear him snoring."
	Pinky said Eric Garner had been arrested several times, once for marijuana and a few times for selling bootleg cigarettes. Which rates right up there in the crime meter with old ladies selling knockoff DVDs and kids selling lemonade without a license.
	Illegal, but small potatoes.
	On Thursday afternoon, Pinky and Eric exchanged texts: At 1:45 p.m. she texted: "You good out there?"
	Eric replied, "Yeah, I'm good."
	At 2:47 p.m. she texted "You ok?"
	He replied, "I'm good. What's for dinner?"
	"Pork chops, Fat Boy."
	"I'll be home early."
	
	Not long after that, a fight broke out between other neighborhood guys on Bay St.
	"Bear broke up that fight," says Pinky. "Not only was he nonviolent, one of the last things he did in his life was stop violence. But then a group of cops arrived. My guess is someone called 911 about the fight. No way did six or eight cops arrive to bust my husband for selling cigarettes. When they arrived the fight was over. The guys involved walked right past the cops. But they recognized my husband and tried to arrest him when he was the peacemaker."
	At 3:15 p.m. Pinky said she was watching People's Court when her son Eric Jr. asked for $20 to go to W. 4th St. in Greenwich Village to play hoops. Then he said he received a text saying his father was being hassled by cops on Bay St. Pinky figured he was being arrested again. She started getting dressed when she received a flurry of calls and texts saying Eric Garner had been arrested by a group of cops and stopped breathing.
	"I rushed to the hospital in a cab at 4:10 p.m.," she says. "I couldn't get answers. I remembered that in the morning before he left I told him I loved him and he said, 'Right back at ya.' Then he kissed me ... Little did I know it would be the last kiss he'd ever give me."
	
	At the hospital Pinky waited from 4:50 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. for answers.
	"Finally the doctors came out and said they did everything they could to save him," she says.
	By nightfall all her children gathered around their mother to weep for the death of their father.
	"The thing I'll miss most is his snoring," she says, laughing through tears. "I don't know how I'll ever be able to sleep again without hearing Bear snoring beside me."
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH ESAW GARNER SPEAKING ABOUT HER LATE HUSBAND.
	CLICK HERE TO WATCH FOOTAGE OF COPS SUBDUING ERIC GARNER.