
	This is a story about how a state bureaucracy killed a vital Brooklyn factory.
	"It's the wrong way to die," says Darrell Caneiro, president of Statewide Fireproof Door Co. in Carroll Gardens. "Since last year the New York State Compensation Rating Board raised my workman comp insurance rates 380% for my six workers in a small family business. It has killed us. We will shut the door of Statewide Door for the last time, after 49 years, in 10 days."
	Who pays the compensation to a neighborhood when one of its only manufacturing plants, an honest to goodness factory that makes real stuff — residential and commercial fire doors that you see on boiler rooms, movie theater fire exits, hospitals, schools and apartment houses all over Brooklyn — has been killed by a bloodless bureaucracy that literally pounced like a vampire and sucked the blood out of its neck?
	"This started last year when my broker for an insurance company I won't name at this juncture told me that my comp insurance rate was too high," says Caneiro, as the business that was founded by his Spanish immigrant grandfather, Manuel, and father, Joe, in 1965 disappeared around him like another lost piece of a vanished working-class Brooklyn.
	"My broker said we had a 3076 state comp rating and that we should be a 3066," says Caneiro, who knows the right screws needed to install doors but not the nuts and bolts of the bureaucratic machine. "He said we'd save $800 to $1,000 if we applied for the proper rating."
	Caneiro's father and grandfather are deceased and so his mother, who owns the lion's share of the business, wrote a letter to the State Compensation Insurance Rating Board asking for a reclassification.
	"A couple of months passed but we didn't hear back," says Caneiro. "But I know bureaucracy can be slow. So I didn't pay it much mind until a letter finally did arrive. It said that because we had not responded to a previous letter — which we never received — giving us 30 days to appeal their decision to change their rating, the new one would go into immediate effect."
	Caneiro had hoped to go from a 3076 to a 3066 rating to save a thousand bucks. "The Ratings Board gave us a completely new rating of 3060," says Caneiro. "The woman who handled the rating change was named Chonte Egerton. She told me that the letter my mom had sent had actually cut our own throat — that the new rating would increase my insurance from about $24,000 a year to $92,000. I told her that would kill our business. In the winter we don't make $92,000. After I paid salaries, real estate taxes, corporation tax, fire and theft insurance, the business would be under water."
	Caneiro said Egerton had a human side, claiming she didn't want to drive them out of business. But that the rules were the rules. "I asked why every worker had to have the same rating," Caneiro says. "A porter shouldn't have the same rating as a guy using an electrical saw? A door installer shouldn't have the same rating as a guy operating heavy machinery. She said that in a factory everyone had the same rating. The new rating increase was firm."
	The big fire door of bureaucracy slammed in his face.
	Caneiro appealed to local pols.
	"The Chamber of Commerce had no juice," Caneiro says. "Chuck Schumer and Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez's offices said it was a state matter. Gov. Cuomo's small business liaison listened to my story, promised he'd help, and never called back. Assemblywoman Joan Millman's office really tried to help."
	Caneiro says Millman's office didn't want Statewide Fireproof Door of Brooklyn, which had supplied doors to homes and businesses all over Brooklyn, closing.
	"Fires and thefts didn't kill us," says Caneiro. "Limited parking, Lowe's and Home Depot opening nearby and the economic collapse and Hurricane Sandy didn't kill us. The bureaucracy killed us."
	Repeated calls to Egerton were not returned.
	"I can't comment on any specific employer," said Ziv Kimmel, chief actuary for NYCIRB. "But inspectors do go out and observe the premises and make a classification evaluation. Then there are procedures for appeal of the classification."
	Caneiro says when he sat in Assemblywoman Millman's office, listening to Chonte Egerton telling one of the Assemblywoman's top aides that the Statewide Fireproof Door case was closed and then hung up on her that he knew the end was near.
	"I knew then we were dead," says Caneiro. "If an assemblywoman can't fight Albany and win, how can I? So we tried to sell the business. No buyers. So I told my mom to put the buildings up for sale. She did. A developer bought them. Statewide Fireproof Door, that was the American Dream of my immigrant father and grandfather, will be dead in 10 days. But it's the wrong way to die."
	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.