
	Applause, please.
	In this month of graduations, please cheer for Antoinette Miller, who will step onto the stage at Lincoln Center's Avery Fisher Hall next Thursday after a life of struggle to receive her master's degree in social work from Touro College.
	"I am so, so, so overwhelmed with excitement," Miller says. "I've been sober now for 16 years. Twelve years ago, I had only an eighth-grade education. Touro will also present me with their Tikkun Olam Award."
	In Hebrew, "tikkun olam" means "repairing the world."
	There could be no more fitting honor for Miller, whose journey through the netherworld of New York began when she was born 58 years ago to an alcoholic mother. Her earliest memory was being separated at 5 from her five older siblings, whom she never saw again, and being placed in a foster home in Brownsville, Brooklyn.
	"I knew I'd been discarded," she says.
	Miller became a tomboy, then ran with bad boys, had her head cracked open trying to play peacemaker in a race riot at Junior High School 271, and soon became a truant runaway, sleeping in hallways.
	By the age of 12, she landed in the Bronx, where her new foster mom gave her permission to smoke.
	"Then I met a gentleman  who gave me my first hit of cocaine," she says. "He dolled me up. I was a gorgeous kid that he took to after-hours clubs in Harlem, where I met my first pimp at 13. I loved the attention."
	But she was soon streetwalking, ravaged on cocaine, beaten, raped, homeless and sleeping in Morningside Park. Her life became a bleary montage of pimps, johns, pushers, junkies, vice cops and night court judges.
	By her 30s, Miller had given birth to two daughters and two sons, fathered by various boyfriends and a husband, whom she divorced.
	"The mothers of my kids' fathers raised them," she says. "Bless them because I was still out there using."
	In 1996, the courts ordered Miller into drug rehab, but after 10 months, she went right back to the street and drugs. In 1998, she finally hit rock bottom.
	"The father of my youngest daughter had gotten sober and he tracked me down to Harlem and took me to a diner," she says. "I was stoned. My face was falling into my food. Then I heard my beautiful daughter say, 'Why is the lady so sick, Daddy?' "
	The little girl did not even know Antoinette Miller was her mother.
	But her question sent Miller voluntarily back to rehab. That became her first step on the long, hard climb to the stage at Lincoln Center.
	In 2002, clean and sober for four years, Miller was riding the No. 2 train to a $6.90-an-hour waitressing job when she saw an ad for Touro College in Manhattan and jotted down the phone number.
	"Touro helped me get my GED," she says. "Then I earned my BS."
	She took a job as a substance abuse counselor at Beth Israel Medical Center, helping damaged people like herself. She also began working hard toward her master's degree.
	Her sons have not yet forgiven her sins. But she reestablished relationships with her daughters, including the youngest, the one who had prompted her into rehab, now an Army vet who served in Afghanistan.
	Miller, who'd been fostered at 5, started smoking at 12, sniffing coke and turning tricks at 13 and got sober only in her 40s, was told last month to report to Lincoln Center for graduation.
	"I would tell anybody on drugs or on the street who thinks her life is over to just take that first step," she said. "Admit you're powerless to drugs or alcohol. Get sober, and the silver lining becomes golden and finally platinum. Life is what you make it. I am living proof that there's a better life if you work for it. Twelve years after I wrote down the number of Touro College, I'll receive my master's. Then I'm going on a two-week cruise to celebrate this beautiful thing called life."
	And then it's back to work.
	Hats off.