
	Like Newtown, when the victims are children, the soul of a neighborhood dies.
	Annabelle Diaz stood in the Monday morning sunshine outside 845 Schenck Ave. in the Boulevard Houses in East New York, Brooklyn, where the day before she had collapsed when she saw a policeman carry out the body of her 6-year-old godson, Prince Joshua (P.J.) Avitto, who'd been stabbed to death by an adult in an elevator.
	A little girl, his pal Mikayla Capers, 7, was also stabbed by an attacker described as a black male in his 20s, wearing a gray sweatshirt.
	"I was with my godson, P.J., in the park around back," said Diaz, folding her arms across her black "Brooklyn" sweatshirt. "He was playing with his best friend, Mikayla, having fun, like he always has fun. It was hot and the kids said they wanted to have an ice. The ices were up in the fridge in his mother's apartment on the sixth floor. He went up to get the ices. It was just a regular, fun day. Until the monster showed up."
	Somewhere between leaving his godmother and coming back down with their ice, the monster with the knife cornered the two children in the project's elevator, a symbol of urban fear. In that vertical coffin, the monster thrust his vicious blade into the torsos of these two defenseless kids who were as innocent as the children of Sandy Hook Elementary School.
	When a different monster killed 20 children in that schoolhouse two years ago, the soul of that safe Connecticut town died 11 days before Christmas.
	This time the very soul of East New York died in that elevator that was soaked in the blood of children.
	"When you mess with our kids, you are messing with the angels," said neighbor David Ortiz, sitting on a motorized wheelchair on the corner of Schenck and Stanley Aves. "I have three daughters — 6, 11, 12 — and I never let them go anywhere alone. Now they are sealed up for the summer. That's it. I lived here eight years and I've seen some really bad things go down. But who the hell stabs kids? I hope the streets catch this sick f--- before the cops. Hang him from that lamppost right there on the corner so we can all throw rocks at him and beat the living s--- out of him like a piñata."
	Around the back of the building where he died, in the playground where P.J. Avitto ran his final happy steps on Sunday afternoon two weeks before his seventh birthday, his godfather, Henry Alston, 53, sat on a park bench with the same glassy-eyed daze you saw all over Newtown two years ago. This time the carnage was up close and extra evil with the thrust of a glinting blade.
	"I was with P.J. for a half-hour yesterday," said Alston, gazing at the empty jungle-gym slide where the boy played and giggled in what no one could imagine would be his final minutes of life. "He was his usual self. He loved Captain America, Spider-Man, Batman, Superman. He was just starting to come into his own, to get knowledge about life."
	Tears rolled out of Alston's bewildered eyes as big, body-wracking sobs shook him. He scrolled his old-fashioned flip phone for adorable photos of P.J. at different stages of his sweet, brief life.
	"I asked God this morning to tell me this wasn't true," he said, a plaintive wail escaping. "But it is true. Oh, God! The last time I saw P.J. alive he was so full of life. So happy. Curious. Adventurous. He'd sit on the front two steps of our building, which I called his office, and he'd play pretend. Everybody in the building knew him. On Halloween he trick-or-treated as Spider-Man. We just got him a Kindle. He was starting to read. He was playing video games on a PSP. I was teaching him how to play checkers and chess. He was just coming alive."
	Alston stared at a photo on his phone of a smiling P.J. and then gazed at a ghost only he could see climbing through the silent jungle gym in the empty playground.
	"Then I saw the policeman carrying P.J. out of our building and onto a stretcher," he said. "Into an ambulance. They raced him to the hospital where my little buddy was pronounced dead."
	He continued his grownup cry for his godson, who had been knifed to death in the elevator the day before by a monster more evil than any of the ones P.J.'s beloved superheroes ever battled.
	"I've lived here over 30 years," he said. "No one ever murdered a child."