Follow @SharonFGrigsby

This is the first election season in many years for me to be a constituent in a Dallas City Council district, so I'm getting a chance to compare what appears in The Dallas Morning News vs. how that material is "interpreted" by the various candidates in their campaign mailings.I live in District 14, where Philip Kingston and Bobby Abtahi are competing in a runoff. Several pieces of Abtahi's campaign literature have bothered me, but none more than a flyer, pictured here, which  I received over the weekend.  Maybe this is just business as usual in Dallas council races. If so, our newspaper ought to be protesting.In the most recent example, Abtahi's campaign takes a sentence from a news story by Gromer Jeffers that reads, "Critics say Kingston's move was a cynical attempt to get the support of a group that doesn't share his political views" and deftly drops the "critics say" portion of the sentence. What do you get? A declarative sentence that looks like the DMN — most likely, the editorial page — labeled Kingston's move a cynical attempt to get the support of a group that doesn't share his political views. In other words, as edited, the reader is led to believe that this is a fact, not an accusation by critics (read: opponent's supporters).Based on advertising, I'd say it's the Abtahi campaign that has been cynical in its distortion of the facts here.Here's the DMN story in its entirety. And here's the editorial board's recommendation of Kingston. Check tomorrow's editorial page for what we have to say regarding the runoff.City council races are nonpartisan — so why is the Abtahi campaign spending so much of its time focusing on whether Kingston is a closet Republican trying to pretend to be a Democrat in hopes of getting access to the database of Democratic voters?"OK, so the Abtahi side would say, this reflects on Kingston's character. Then why not print the sentence correctly and let readers decide if they care, based on facts, not distortion?The mailer says "Thankfully, our City Council is a non-partisan office. So why did Philip Kingston sign a Democratic oath during his campaign?" My proposed headline is: "Thankfully, our City council is a non-partisan office. So why did the Abtahi campaign spend so much money accusing Kingston of pandering?"The voters I "polled" over neighborhood yard work this weekend seemed to care less whether Kingston gave to a Ted Cruz-founded PAC and more about exactly where Abtahi stands on local issues — particularly the Trinity toll road and gas drilling. I thought I knew, until I read this Sunday story in the DMN. I couldn't help but chuckle over the line in the Abtahi flyer that said "Our community deserves an independent leader who will stand up for families ..."When I see candidates take our newspaper's work out of context (or worse), I better understand the pain people feel when the newspaper makes an error about them or gets a quote wrong. But with the newspaper, it's 99.9 percent of the time innocent (although no less egregious) human error. When it comes to "mistakes" that political candidates make in their use of DMN work for advertising, it's not so innocent.