
	She's pretty tough.
	Heather (The Heat) Hardy, a single mom from the rugged streets of Gerritsen Beach, Brooklyn, will climb the four steps up to the ring on Saturday night for the first ever professional female boxing match at the Barclays Center.
	Hardy, boasting a 9-0 record is the World Boxing Council's No. 1 contender in the 125-pound female boxer category. She will face Jackie Trevolino on the undercard of Rusian (Siberian Rocky) Provodnikov's first defense of his World Boxing Organization junior welterweight title against Chris Algieri of Huntington, L.I.
	"A lot of my fans from my old neighborhood and all over Brooklyn will be there," says Hardy, 32. "My parents will be there. Fighting in Barclays is a dream come true. My biggest dream is winning the title."
	How did Hardy wind up in what Red Smith once called "the red-light district of sports"?
	"When I was married, my husband used to get into bar brawls and I'd jump in the middle," she says. "I come from a long line of tomboys. My grandmother was the first female volunteer firefighter in Gerritsen Beach. My mom was the first female gym teacher at Resurrection School."
	One day, Hardy noticed a new gym in her neighborhood offering yoga and kickboxing.
	"I always wanted to try yoga," she says. "Then I tried kickboxing."
	She liked fighting so much she decided to get in a regular boxing ring. Her trainer was Alicia Ashley, who holds the 125-pound World Boxing Council female title.
	"I lost my first two amateur fights," says Hardy. "I cried because I beat the crap out of those girls but I wasn't technically polished. So the judges scored against me. Then my trainer left for Europe to fight. Her brother Devon Cormac had watched my fights. He was a sixth-degree black belt and three-time world kickboxing champ. He was also a trainer."
	Cormac sits beside Hardy in a back room of Gleason's Gym, a slight man ripped with a fighter's long, lean muscles.
	"I was impressed with Heather," Cormac says. "Cute, blond girl who fought in a fearless nonstop style. But raw."
	"I told Devon I'd do anything to win," Hardy says. "I told her we had a lot of work to do," says Cormac. He took over Hardy's training.
	Every morning, after dropping her 9-year-old daughter, Annie, at a local public school, Hardy runs from her DUMBO apartment across the Brooklyn Bridge and north through the streets of Lower Manhattan to the Manhattan Bridge, back over to Brooklyn and up the two flights of stairs to Gleason's Gym. There she does mat work, pounds the heavy bags, blurs the speed bags and attacks the mitts that Cormac wears. After a protein-packed lunch and a nap, it's back to the gym for skipping rope and sparring before she picks up Annie from school at 3 p.m. "My daughter is completely unimpressed by what I do for a living," says Hardy. "I also train women in Gleason's, so she just sees me as a teacher."
	After seven months of Cormac's training, Hardy fought in the Golden Gloves finals, won the Amateur Athletic Union regionals and wound up in Colorado Springs at the nationals. "I'd never left New York before," she says. "Here I was in Colorado just beating the s--- out of a string of girls from across the country."
	She turned pro two years ago.
	Isn't Hardy afraid of having her pretty face marked up?
	"Sometimes I wish I were afraid," she says. "I've had my nose broken twice and had five stitches over my left eye. But I just love boxing."
	How does her profession affect her love life?
	"I have one guy. The only one who could ever understand me."
	She love-taps Cormac, and the two sweethearts of the sweet science break into abashed laughter.
	But wait a minute. Doesn't her boyfriend's sister wear the championship crown that Hardy covets? "Yeah," says Hardy. "And that's a problem. Alicia's like my big sister."
	"They can never fight," says Cormac. "She has to wait for my sister to retire. Alicia's 41, but she isn't ready to give it up yet."
	"So until then I have to beat everyone else around," says Hardy. "I just wish that the networks and cable stations would start televising women fighters again. If you let audiences see me fight they'll love me because I wear a short Irish skirt and kick ass and put on a hell of a show. Come to Barclays on Saturday night and you'll see."
	Pretty tough.
	On mobile device? Click here to watch video.