
	For shame.
	Would they party if their relatives were among the 1,115 dead whose remains were downstairs?
	That's the question for the people who sipped bubbly and nibbled crab cakes at the black-tie, invitation-only party at the National September 11 Memorial  Museum on Tuesday.
	If the unidentified remains of your son, daughter, brother, sister, mother, father, wife or husband, friend or loved one were entombed in the subbasement at Ground Zero, would you be drinking wine and eating shrimp cocktail in the lobby of a museum dedicated to the darkest day in the history of New York City?
	I don't think so.
	To start with, the most moving part of the museum is that it makes you feel that all those who died were part of the family of New York. The footage of the ordinary guys and gals arriving for work at the 110-story towers on that ordinary Tuesday morning, not knowing it could be their last morning on Earth, is what gives this museum its extraordinary power. I didn't see any of them in black tie or evening gowns .
	This is a celebration of the hardworking New Yorkers who went to the World Trade Center to support themselves and their families, to save for dreams not yet realized, and then were obliterated by a collection of religious fanatics in a monstrous act of mass murder.
	When you see the beautiful faces on the posters of the missing, you see the faces of the City of New York. They could have been any of us.
	The dead belonged to all of us because the terrorist attacks were not just against the people in the towers. The terrorists had struck every New Yorker. And Ground Zero became a bottomless hole in our collective heart.
	We all mourned. We all cried. The whole city fell silent when the bagpipes wailed and names of the dead were read at Ground Zero.
	It sure didn't read like a VIP list.
	I felt that same reverent, respectful, inclusive sorrow when I walked through the 9/11 museum last week, seeing again the footage of the planes hitting the towers, the artifacts of the dead and the survivors, the celebration of heroes like FDNY Capt. Paddy Brown and NYPD Officer Moira Smith , who almost certainly knew that this would be their final tour as they kept working to save the innocent as the towers teetered.
	Neither was dressed in formal attire that terrible day.
	No, they wore the rugged uniforms of first responders like the ones turned away from the museum Tuesday so staff could prepare for the VIP party.
	Walking through the museum, I thought of working-class victims I knew like receptionist Peggy Conner, big sister of my grammar school pal Kevin Burns, who perished in a Cantor Fitzgerald office.
	"I find it ghoulish and insane to have a party over the remains of the 9/11 dead like my sister," said Burns, a Vietnam vet. "The museum has a VIP list drinking wine. Meanwhile, my other sister, Pat Cuozzo, almost got arrested on the day the museum opened because she refused to pay admission to add a photo of my lost sister to the memorial wall. It's a disgrace."
	The museum works because it is a celebration of ordinary New Yorkers who died on 9/11, the common people who could have been any of us. When I left the museum I felt a lot of swirling emotions. The last thing I felt like was partying.
	To learn that this dignified shrine was turned into a lounge with a guest list of big shots who came to party above the remains of the unidentified dead made me realize that some people think they are even more important than the fallen of 9/11.
	Get it straight: The 9/11 museum is not the 40/40 Club or a movie premiere or a gallery opening. This is a shrine dedicated to the memory of the common people who died in an unspeakable act of war on America.
	And just as you don't throw a barbecue on the field at Gettysburg and you don't booze cruise next to the warship Arizona, you do not sip wine and yuk it up with other "VIPs" at a museum honoring the 9/11 dead.
	For shame.