
	She was in the pizzeria less than a half hour before the California shootings erupted.
	Molly Hamill, 20, my niece, is a creative writing major at University of California at Santa Barbara finishing her junior year. She lives with roommates in Isla Vista, the small college town shattered on Friday night by another All-American Psycho with a gun who this time left six dead.
	Seven dead if you want to count this subhuman slug who apparently went on his murderous rampage because women rejected him — big surprise, huh? — and he was still a virgin at 22.
	"I'm still shaken from last night," Molly said by phone Saturday. "I cried this morning. This is a very small town of 1 square mile but with 22,000 residents, most students from the UCSB and the City College of Santa Barbara. You can bike or skateboard the whole town in five minutes. So when something like this happens everyone knows fast."
	She says the shootings first erupted in a small strip mall of fast-food joints on Pardell Road.
	"I used to work as a cashier in the IV Deli where some of the shootings took place," she says. "I was in the Pizza My Heart — where everybody goes for the $2 beers — from about 8:40 p.m. to 9:10 p.m. I saw my friend Zelina there and left and walked two blocks to my friend Christian's house."
	The shootings started around 9:30 p.m.
	One of her close friends was doing an acting improv at a small theater across the street from the gunfire. "My friend Ian ... started receiving texts from a coworker who was outside the IV Deli cradling a guy who was literally dying from gunshot wounds," Molly says.
	"The dead could have been any of us," she said.
	When the gun smoke cleared, Molly searched Facebook for friends. "They were all safe," she says. "Even Zelina was unhurt."
	Then the 20-year-old student profiled the killer with a peer's perspective.
	"We didn't have any mutual Facebook friends," Molly said. "But then he probably didn't have any real friends. In classic Columbine fashion he was filled with ego, rage, and entitlement and in this case misogyny. He wanted to kill women for rejecting him. He also wanted to kill guys. Anyone in his path. It's just sad, tragic, senseless murder. In a big scary, city it would be hard to put a crime like this in context. But in a small college town a student psychopath with a gun feels so shocking, scary and personal."
	And yet so common now in America.