
	Ryan thought of it as another subplot in the never-ending narrative of his city.
	His family gathered at a lunch table in a loud Italian restaurant near the hospital.
	They'd traveled in from California, Florida, Arizona, New Jersey, Connecticut and upstate. They broke bread and spoke about a family member who'd just survived the toughest week of his life.
	This morning had been the best one of the week so far. Against Lotto odds and doctors' predictions, the day before, the patient had awakened from a coma-like state.
	With a ventilator clogging his mouth, his blue eyes focused. He could nod "yes" and "no" to questions and commands.
	When the sun set and rose again, the doctors were even able to liberate him from the ventilator.
	The patient turned to loved ones as they spoke, comprehending questions. "How are you, Honey?" asked his wife, who'd kept a dedicated vigil with his two daughters by his bedside day and night, never giving up hope that his eyes would reopen.
	"Wa-ter," he whispered with pasty lips, breaking a four-day silence. The word dripped with life.
	"Must feel good to get that contraption out," Ryan had said to him.
	"A-maz-ing," his brother said, breathing under a simple transparent oxygen mask.
	The family, buoyed with cautious hope, left the patient alone to speak with his wife.
	The clan gathered in the hospital lobby, embracing in bittersweet reunions. They joked and busted chops — family style. Then they stepped out into the cold spring afternoon, walking three blocks to the restaurant where waiters had set up a table for 12, delivering ice water and baskets of warm bread and muffins. The family ordered pasta and salads and chicken.
	Symbols of life.
	They all clinked water glasses to their sick family member — a father, brother, uncle.
	Fighter.
	Photos of children and grandchildren were exchanged, and someone lamented about how fast time moved when there was more of it behind you than in front of you. And someone else remarked how important it was to live each day like it might be your last. And then everyone pledged to get medical checkups and start dieting, walking and exercising in the balmy spring.
	That would soon bloom with life.
	"I hate hospitals," said one brother.
	"I'd rather die in the street," said another.
	The pasta was served, steaming and delicious, and Ryan watched his family dig in as more relatives arrived to eat.
	As this single family circled its wagons around their private drama in the big city, another family in Brooklyn was preparing to bury a workingman shot dead on the B15 bus last week by yet another insignificant young punk with a gun.
	And a famous rock star searched for the elusive words to say goodbye for the final time to a beautiful, talented lover who'd taken her own life.
	And the families of those killed in an East Harlem gas explosion grappled for ways to blossom back to life in the springtime after burying their dead.
	Ryan and his family ate with gusto, counting their blessings as one in five families in the city survived on meals from food pantries.
	Life and death and struggle swirled around them in the endless subplots of New York. In their small story line, Ryan and his family were happy just to see a glimmer of hope.
	They had converged on the hospital prepared for grim news on a cold day. Instead they heard their conscious loved one ask for "wa-ter."
	And then Ryan heard him sound out the last word of a single chapter in a longer narrative. But it was the perfect word to help his family turn the page.
	"A-maz-ing."