
	These are the forgotten New Yorkers.
	A widower from Staten Island mopping supermarket floors to put food on the table for his daughter.
	An airplane cleaner from East Flatbush, Brooklyn, supporting a wife and infant daughter on $8 an hour.
	A couple from Midwood, Brooklyn, whose combined income of $28 an hour isn't enough to support their kids but is high enough that they qualify for just $6 a month in food stamps.
	A single mom from Richmond Hill, Queens, raising two teenage sons — one an honors student and the other developmentally challenged — with the help of a Section 8 rent stipend, food pantry provisions, food stamps and her salary as a part-time worker for the Department of Motor Vehicles.
	They are working taxpayers who are not rich, middle class or welfare-dependent; families of every color united by the daily pursuit of the elusive greenback.
	SNAP!
	That was the sound of their already stretched kitchen-table budgets when a $5 billion cut from the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, better known as food stamps, took effect on Nov. 1.
	The program allots a paltry $1.40 per person per meal. Cut $14 and a family loses 10 meals.
	Every dollar counts for Robert Bruckman, 55, a supermarket worker, who lost his wife, Susan, in December and now lives with their daughter Samantha, 22, in a $1,200-a-month two-bedroom apartment in Port Richmond, S.I.
	"I clean the building for the landlord, which reduces my rent to $960," Bruckman says. "I don't drive. I don't go to ballgames or movies. I don't drink, smoke, gamble or take drugs. Now with the missus gone, I have just Samantha. My dream is for her dream to come true of becoming a veterinarian's assistant."
	He points to a silver urn on a shelf holding ashes. "Married 23 years. Man, I loved her. I wish she was here to help me figure out how to live without her."
	When his disabled wife died, the family lost her monthly $556 Social Security disability check. Now they tread water on his 16-hour-a-week job as a cleaner and shelf stocker at Pathmark on Forest Ave., where he earns $10.14 an hour.
	"I'd love to work full time," he says. "But after 12 years on the job, Pathmark still doesn't have full-time work for me. So I applied for a full-time janitor job at the College of Staten Island. That would be like hitting Powerball."
	Samantha used to work at the same store but had to resign because they only had daytime hours, which conflicted with her GED classes. "She just got her GED, and she's looking for work again," he says.
	"I want to go to college to become a veterinarian assistant," she says. "In the meantime, to qualify for SNAP, I have to take mandatory back-to-work classes three days a week."
	"When the missus died, we also lost about $80 from SNAP," Bruckman says. "Lost another $29 in the general SNAP cuts on top of that. So now we get $234 a month SNAP."
	If he gets regular overtime, Bruckman takes home $784.32 a month.
	"My rent's $960," he says. "Con Ed runs about $105, and we keep the heat at 68 degrees and use low-energy light bulbs. My landlord is good. Lets me pay what I can afford in pieces. Until my daughter finds work, that SNAP cut really hurts us. Maybe $29 doesn't sound like a lot. For us, it hurts."
	It's about 20 meals.
	Across the Verrazano Bridge in East Flatbush, Andrew Lloyd, 29, his wife, Tamara, and their year-old daughter, Rachel, share a basement apartment in Andrew's grandmother's house on E. 55th St.
	"I earn $8 an hour cleaning airplanes at JFK Airport," he says. "After passengers get off, from vacations, business trips, we go in and clean up the galley. Then the vomit and feces and sanitary napkins from the toilets. We've been fighting to get an extra $1 an hour. That could make up for the cut in food stamps, which really, really hurts when you try to raise a family of three on $8 an hour."
	Andrew deejays to supplement his income. "And we are lucky because this is my grandparents' house and they rent the basement to us for $400 a month."
	The Lloyds were receiving $295 a month in food stamps, which has been cut to $270. "We shop at BJ's, loading up on rice, beans, pasta, canned goods," says Tamara. "We also use coupons and chase sales from local supermarkets to get fish and meats."
	"We never eat out," Andrew says. "I owe Tamara a Red Lobster meal for our anniversary. But Red Lobster is so expensive."
	They both say Tamara will seek out work when Rachel gets a little older.
	"We don't want Rachel to struggle the way we have," says Andrew. "So we will put a major emphasis on education. Meanwhile, I work 2:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. A team of 10 people to clean a 757 in five minutes, and every single one of us is on food stamps, even supervisors making $10 an hour."
	None of them could ever afford a vacation on one of the planes they clean.
	"Still, you keep working," Andrew says. "In Los Angeles, plane cleaners make $15 an hour. That would make a huge difference in our lives. Right now, I'm just hoping for a good week of overtime during the busy Easter vacation week so maybe I can take Tamara to Red Lobster."
	A few miles away, Jose Fernandez and Rosalina Diaz raise two kids, Lisa, 6, and Raphael, 5, in a one-bedroom $1,200-a-month apartment on Nostrand Ave. in Midwood. "We have to pay our own heat, too," says Jose. "This winter killed us. I make $18 an hour at Home Depot on 23rd St. in Manhattan as an aisle stocker."
	"I work 16 hours a week at $10 an hour as an outreach assistant at Maimonides hospital," says Rosalina. "I set up nutrition forums about how to eat more healthful foods to prevent obesity. I love fresh vegetables, fresh fruit. I tell people to eat fresh, wholesome, unprocessed foods so they won't become obese or develop diabetes that killed my father at 57."
	She begins to weep.
	"My job is to urge people to eat the kinds of food I can't even afford for my family," she says. "Jose and I take home a combined income of about $2,100 a month. We have $1,200 in rent, $240 a month MetroCards, Con Ed, which is sky-high, minimum cell phones, and food, clothing, school supplies."
	"And guess how much we get on SNAP?" says Jose. "Six dollars a month. We earn too little to live on. And too much for SNAP. Stuck in working-poverty limbo.
	"We go through 4 gallons of milk a week. That pays for a gallon and a half."
	Over at the River Fund food pantry on Lefferts Blvd. in Richmond Hill, a single mom who works part-time for the DMV knows that same struggle.
	"Call me 'Pamela Brown,' " she says. "I can't use my real name or it will embarrass my teenage sons."
	Four hours a day, she processes driver's licenses, but she does not own a car.
	"The father of my sons abandoned us years ago," she says.
	She gets a Section 8 stipend to supplement her rent. "My portion of the two-bedroom apartment is $621 a month," she says. "I take home $560 every two weeks. I used to get $329 in food stamps. But since I started working and since the Congress cut SNAP, I get $240 a month."
	She says it is impossible to feed a family of three on $240 a month. So when she heard about the River Fund pantry supported by City Harvest she put her "pride to the side and came to get canned goods, pasta, rice, beans."
	She says the money she saves from the free pantry provisions allows her to cut coupons and buy meat and other fresh food at the supermarket.
	But even reduced food stamps had one extra benefit. "One of my sons is an honor student at Richmond Hill High, taking advanced placement calculus, physics, global history courses. But my other son is developmentally delayed."
	She said that when the SAT approached, her honors student son was afraid to tell her it cost $51. "I overheard him discussing it with a friend from the Arista honor society club he belongs to," she said. "I felt like crying. My boy knows that every dollar is so tight that he was afraid to ask me to pay for his SATs. Well, I found out that if you're on food stamps, the SAT fee is waived. My son was thrilled. He took the SAT and scored a 1620."
	This selfless kid, who spends most of his free time in school or in libraries because there is no computer at home, is a natural resource waiting to be mined.
	"On March 25 at 3:30 p.m., the Queens public library on 165th St. will have a seminar on scholarships," Brown says. "I will be there to learn all there is for my son to go to the best college. And if I have to go to food pantries after work to plug the hole left by SNAP so my son will never have to do the same for his children, well that's what a mom is for."