
	The plane.
	The missing plane was all most people heard and talked about all weekend.
	I first heard the news on the radio while passing LaGuardia Airport on Friday: "A 777 jet carrying 239 people vanishes without a trace over the Gulf of Thailand."
	Planes sailed in over the gridlocked highway. Other jets launched from the short runways into the cold sky like a crazy toss of the dice.
	I'd been afraid of flying since I was 9. On Dec. 16, 1960, a TWA Constellation and a United DC-8 collided over New York. The TWA flight crashed in Miller Field on Staten Island. The United DC-8 screamed toward Brooklyn, skimming over Holy Family School on 14th St. and Fourth Ave., rattling our walls and windows. My teacher, a nun, made us kneel for a rosary as the crippled plane hurtled southeast, hoping to land in Prospect Park. It almost took out St. Augustine School on Sixth Ave. before crashing snout-first into the Pillar of Fire Church on Seventh Ave. and Sterling Place in Park Slope. All 128 people on the planes and six on the ground perished.
	The crash still spooked me 54 years later when my phone rang as I passed LaGuardia. It was my brother Brian suggesting I fly to the opening of his photo exhibition at the Hotel Valencia in La Jolla, Calif. "Beautiful town," he said. "Hotel's gorgeous. Amazing rooms overlooking the balmy Pacific."
	Tempting. Until he said, "You fly into San Diego ..."
	Which flashed me back to Sept. 25, 1978, rushing for the Los Angeles Herald Examiner to cover the crash of Pacific Southwest Airlines Flight 182, a 727 carrying 132 people that had collided over San Diego with a Cessna. The 727 pilot James McFeron's final haunting words were, "Tower, we're going down. This is it ... Ma, I love ya ..."
	The 727 dived into the intersection of Dwight and Nile Sts. When I arrived, after the jet fuel inferno was extinguished, not a single corpse was recognizable.
	Now a 777 with 239 onboard, two with stolen passports, was gone.
	Everyone I knew had a theory — terrorists, skyjackers, aliens, Chris Christie.
	After our kids finished high school baseball tryouts, I ate with three other baseball dads, exchanging personal flying horror stories.
	Then I read aloud from the Daily News website that a new theory suggested the plane might have "disintegrated" at 35,000 feet. Four grown men sat frozen in silence.
	Until the kids asked to see a movie.
	To escape a weekend of chilling headlines, I sat in the College Point, Queens, movie theater watching Liam Neeson in "Non-Stop." He plays a sky marshal trying to locate a serial killer who'd planted a bomb onboard the plane.
	The plane.