
	So this week, it's charter schools.
	Every week, his sore-loser critics want Mayor de Blasio to break another campaign promise to those who elected him.
	De Blasio, a progressive Democrat, ran on a platform of complete reform of the NYPD's out-of-control "stop, question and frisk" policy under Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly. Joe Lhota, his Republican opponent, promised to continue the policy and reappoint Kelly.
	The city went to the polls and gave de Blasio about 75% of the vote.
	And when de Blasio appointed Bill Bratton police commissioner to implement stop-and-frisk reforms, the mayor's "shocked, shocked" critics painted him as a Socialist Sandinista who is inviting a return to the bad old days of the crack epidemic.
	They wanted de Blasio to break his campaign promise.
	This is ridiculous. Especially since under de Blasio/Bratton, this city has already enjoyed a 21% dip in murders during the first two months of the year.
	De Blasio the candidate promised to tax the rich a paltry sum to help fund universal prekindergarten in public schools.
	When Mayor de Blasio moved to keep that promise, his critics had a meltdown. They preferred a different plan suggested by Gov. Cuomo, who, in an election year, must appeal to a much broader statewide electorate.
	De Blasio's critics got headlines. But they are the minority who either voted for his opponent or did not have the civic pride to vote at all.
	Now de Blasio's sore-loser critics demand he break this campaign promise, too.
	And this week, it's charter schools.
	Candidate de Blasio promised he'd start charging well-financed charter schools that got rent-free use of space in public schools. He did not like the idea of two different sets of kids getting different educations under the same school roof. One group gets a quasi-private school with no overhead in public school space.
	Grade that F — for favoritism.
	De Blasio's critics like to point out that many charter school students are minorities. So what? So are most New York City public school students.
	The mayor's critics even resort to making this a contest of how many people show up at rallies in Albany. One thousand people at a pro-de Blasio prekindergarten rally as opposed to 7,000 at an anti-de Blasio save-the-charter-school rally. Both are laughable numbers out of a public school system of 1.1 million students.
	The only rally that mattered was the election last November.
	De Blasio ran as a liberal Democrat on a progressive platform against Lhota. The choice was clear: Turn left or turn right.
	De Blasio won in a landslide.
	Some rich and powerful people don't like the people's choice of taxing the rich for pre-K. The police union doesn't like the new stop-and-frisk policy. Parents of charter school students don't like de Blasio's new policy.
	But the people have spoken.
	The bottom line is: De Blasio was elected to reform stop-and-frisk, tax the rich to fund pre-K and curb the freeloading charter schools in public school buildings.
	Now his sore-loser critics want him to break all those campaign promises.
	Which would make de Blasio a phony and a liar to all those who elected him.