
	With the St. Patrick's Day Parade fast becoming the Bigot's Day Procession, fear not: There's still much to celebrate about Irish heritage in March.
	Start with the 16th annual Craic Festival of Music and Film this Thursday through Saturday. The event, better known as the New York Irish Film and Music Festival, will present top modern Irish bands and three nights of Irish-themed documentaries that will not perpetuate demeaning stereotypes of puking drunks, brawling leprechauns and homophobic Neanderthals.
	Before the Craic Fest kicks off, I'll watch the Oscars on Sunday night, rooting for part Irish-American Matthew McConaughey to win the Best Actor Oscar for his outstanding performance in "Dallas Buyers Club." While they're at it, the trophy makers of Tinseltown can start engraving McConaughey's name on the Best Actor Emmy for his chilling turn in HBO's "True Detective."
	Also in the running at the Academy Awards, nominated for Best Picture and Adapted Screenplay, is "Philomena," which exposes the sacrilegious practices of the Irish Catholic Church when it housed some 60,000 unwed mothers in Dickensian laundries and literally sold their babies to wealthy Americans.
	The Irish will not be proud of this sin on the soul of the Irish Catholic Church. But be proud that it has finally been exposed to the world in a brilliant 92-minute screenplay by Steve Coogan and Jeff Pope, directed by the always excellent Stephen ("The Van") Frears and acted with a delicate mix of humor and heartbreak by Judi Dench.
	Then onward to the Irish Film Festival, which opens Thursday with a documentary called "Danny Boy: The Ballad That Bewitched the World," featuring Gabriel Byrne and Malachy McCourt. They traced the history of the song, written by an English lawyer, on the 100th anniversary of its publication. The film explores why "Danny Boy" became an enduring Irish staple covered by such diverse artists as Johnny Cash, Judy Collins, Harry Belafonte and Ruben Blades. Director James Maycock will be on hand to answer questions after the screening.
	Friday brings a double feature, starting with "The Siege of 1922," directed by Andrew Gallimore, about the civil war that ended with the partition of Ireland. This will be followed by "14 Days," helmed by Dermot Lavery, about a violent two weeks in Northern Ireland in March 1988 that shocked the world. The film focuses on a gutsy Catholic priest, the Rev. Alex Reid, who administered last rites to two British corporals killed by the Irish Republican Army. He then helped bring together the warring political leaders to forge the beginning of the end of the Troubles.
	If "Philomena" portrays the worst of the Catholic Church in Ireland, "14 Days" depicts the Irish clergy at its brave and Christian best. One prays that the top hats at 50th St. and Fifth Ave. on the St. Patrick's Day Parade route see these films back to back in the month of March and do a little Celtic soul-searching.
	On Saturday, the festival closes with "Through Triumph and Tragedy" by Tim Geraghty, an Irish-American filmmaker from Long Island, about the history of the FDNY Emerald Society Pipes and Drums. "It shows the happiest and saddest days in New York's history, including the endless funerals following 9/11," says festival director Terence Mulligan.
	Each screening at the Tribeca Cinemas, 54 Varick St., costs $20 and includes an after-party at the Tribeca Lounge.
	"Modern Irish and Irish-American bands will also play at the Mercury Lounge on Houston St. on (Friday and Saturday)," says Mulligan. Friday, "a local band called the Narrowbacks opens for Rubber Bandits, one of the hottest bands in Ireland. Then it's Belfast rock night on (Saturday) with Duke Special, Rams' Pocket Radio and Steafan Hanvey."
	If you want a genuine taste of modern Irish culture and history far from the noninclusive parade route, these films, these bands and the smart people at the after-parties will give you respite from the green beer and insulting T-shirts worn by numbskulls that perpetuate degrading Irish stereotypes in the month of March.