
	Chaz Williams loves coming home to Brooklyn.
	The kid from Bushwick who led Bishop Ford High to a state championship in his junior year will do a fast break back into the Borough of Baskets. He'll be starting Wednesday at the Barclays Center as the 5-foot-9 senior point guard for the University of Massachusetts in the 2014 Atlantic 10 Men's Basketball Championship.
	The winner gets an NCAA tourney bid.
	"It's a great feeling coming back to Brooklyn," says Williams. "I come down as often as I can to visit my mom and my daughter Cheree. But never in my wildest dreams did I think I'd be playing in an arena like Barclays in Brooklyn. I learned how to play ball in the park in Brooklyn with my dad."
	Chaz was 3 when his father, Calvin Williams, started teaching him the hoops fundamentals that have given him a potential open lane to professional basketball.
	"My mom was a great basketball player, too," Chaz Williams says. "But she always put a huge emphasis on education. Once, when she punished me, she made me stay home from playing ball to read a biography of Albert Einstein. Best book I ever read. Einstein had courage. He thought outside the box. He took chances. He fought to get people to accept his theories. I related to him. I had to fight to get people to accept me because of my size."
	He says Bishop Ford High in Brooklyn became a second home.
	"Mr. (Ray) Nash, my mentor, guided me, gave me the opportunity to show people who I was," says Williams. "So coming back to Brooklyn with a great team like UMass in the Atlantic 10 Championships is a dream come true."
	It wasn't always like that.
	When Williams was 9, his beloved father died of a brain tumor at 47.
	"After that, I wasn't interested in anything," Williams says. "I stopped playing ball for a year. I was just sad all the time."
	But with the steady persuasion of his mother, Diane Williams, Chaz started rebounding from his funk.
	"It wasn't just me," the mom says. "His grandmother and cousins had a lot to do with helping Chaz. We all convinced him that his dad would want him to pursue his dreams."
	It worked.
	"Every time I play a game I touch my heart and point to my father in heaven," he says. "He's with me. Always. Watching over me from above with my mom and my family with me down here."
	"Most people see Chaz for his talent, his vision, his speed," his mother says. "What I'm most proud of is how good a person he is. He worked so hard, made so many sacrifices, to get where he is. He did it all himself. Mr. Nash at Bishop Ford told him that he wanted Chaz to take everything he'd learned and pass it on to others. He taught Chaz leadership. And Chaz does that all the time now, helping all his teammates and friends, just as Mr. Nash wanted."
	Chaz Williams dribbles into these games after leading UMass to a 23-6 record, in fourth place in the Atlantic 10, with a 10-5 record in conference play. Averaging 15.8 points per game and 7.1 assists, he's third in the NCAA Division 1. With 816 career assists, he's 12 away from being in the D-1 top 25 of all time.
	Last year, Williams was offered $150,000 to play pro ball in Turkey.
	"First thing I did was call my mom," he says. "We discussed it as a family."
	"I taught Chaz all his life to weigh pros and cons," Diane Williams says. "I reminded him that he was a student-athlete, not an athlete-student. Education comes first. But the decision was his."
	"The team offered to move my mom and daughter to Istanbul," Chaz recalled. "But I thought about my mom and my daughter. I thought what my dad would say. Then I turned it down, to stay in school and get my degree in sociology. But I still want to play pro ball. Right now, I'm looking to play in Barclays next week. My dad will be watching from above."
	What will he do in his spare time in Brooklyn?
	"I'll go catch a Bishop Ford game," he says, "and remember where I come from."
	dhamill@nydailynews.com