
	Here's to Guinness!
	I haven't had a drink in 23 years, but if I were to fall off the wagon, my first order would be a pint of Guinness.
	And I'd toast Pope Francis.
	I was pleasantly surprised to see that the famous brewery had the "bottle" — as the Irish would say — to stand up to the bigots who would not let the Irish gay community march in New York's St. Patrick's Day parade behind their own banner.
	The Guinness statement reads: "Guinness has a strong history of supporting diversity and being an advocate for equality for all. We were hopeful that the policy of exclusion would be reversed for this year's parade. As this has not come to pass, Guinness has withdrawn its participation. We will continue to work with community leaders to ensure that future parades have an inclusionary policy."
	Let's hope that last sentence comes true.
	Until then, I'll march with Mayor de Blasio to a different drummer on St. Patrick's Day.
	I hear from people all the time that gays are welcome to march up Fifth Ave. in the parade as long as they don't identify themselves as members of the LGBT community.
	Excuse me, why not? This is New York City, not Arizona, where the legislature recently voted a despicable anti-gay law that was vetoed by the governor. And this is America, not John Bull's Britain that tyrannized Ireland, forbidding the Irish the wearin' o' the green, the flying of the tricolor and even the playing of Irish music.
	This is the land of the free, with liberty and justice for all. This is the U.S.A., the country that became a second home to the Irish diaspora fleeing the great hunger, British oppression and sectarian bigotry.
	That's why my parents came to this country from Ireland, to this great diverse city where Lady Liberty holds a torch for the tired and the poor and the huddled masses yearning to breathe free. Does anyone think Emma Lazarus wanted to exclude gay people from the New Colossus? Is the Irish LGBT community supposed to breathe free in a closet in New York City in 2014?
	Only bigots would say yes.
	I grew up the son of Belfast Catholic immigrants who came to New York to escape the rampant anti-Catholic sectarianism of Northern Ireland. My father was 7 when the Titanic was built in the shipyards of Belfast. He told me that the only Catholics who worked in those shipyards were the lowly janitors who cleaned up after the well-paid Protestant shipbuilders. I asked if management actually asked your religion on work applications.
	"They asked where you went to school," said my father. "When they saw the name of your Catholic school, the hiring boss told you there was no work."
	All the people marching proudly Monday behind Catholic school banners might keep in mind next March 17 that in the recent past in Northern Ireland you could not get work because of your Catholic school's name.
	That is called bigotry.
	Guinness was not alone in withdrawing their sponsorship of this exclusive parade. Heineken, Gillette and Westin also pulled out.
	The St. Patrick's Day Parade Committee has stood by its position that this is a Catholic parade, not an Irish parade, and that homosexuality is forbidden by the church. That's a load of blarney. Pope Francis is more accepting of gays in the church than the anachronistic parade committee.
	When asked about gays in a July news conference, Pope Francis, who is infallible in matters of faith and morals, said, "If someone is gay and he searches for the Lord and has good will, who am I to judge?"
	Last week, Pope Francis hinted the church could accept gay civil unions. In his homily on St. Patrick's Day, Pope Francis doubled down on the church being inclusive of gays: "The Lord says: 'Do not judge or you will be judged. Do not condemn or you will be condemned.' "
	If I were still a drinker, I'd lift a Guinness to Pope Francis.