Follow @SharonFGrigsby
Breaking news of the past two days has kept me from getting these comments up in a more timely way. In addition to the comments on my initial post on this topic, I received two replies that merit spotlighting:The first one is from Luis Hernandez, whom Nancy Bingham defeated for a DISD trustee's seat. (Here's our recommendation in that race). I wish I had gotten the chance to meet Hernandez during the campaign because he sounds like just the kind of smart new leaders we need more of!Here's what Luis Hernandez had to say:I read your blog post and had a few quick comments. While I agree that southeastern Dallas is entrenched in old-school politics, there are a few more reasons for the lack of Latino leaders. First, as someone who recently knocked on at least 2,000 doors to Hispanic homes, I can tell you that around a quarter to a third of all residents were not eligible to vote because of their immigration status. Which leads me to my second point, a majority of those who are eligible to vote are first-generation immigrants, like my family. Because of our limited time in this country, our families are not as established and do not have the resources or time necessary to become leaders and much less run for office.So where are our new Latino leaders? They're in school. Which would be great, if they weren't going to DISD.The second thoughtful response came from Fernando Rubio, a teacher and West Dallas resident, who has written for Viewpoints in the past. (Here's one of his columns from 2010.)I generally agree with your basic argument that new Latino leaders from the Dallas community are needed. A new generation of leaders are needed to tackle long-standing issues affecting the Latino community. Fresh leadership may be the starting point in seriously addressing a host of issues.However, I strongly disagree with your understanding of the redistricting in regards to Latinos. The redistricting process was not about providing additional opportunity for Latino representation. I speculate that given men are not angels that the city political districts were mostly driven by politics. Local politicians were fully aware of specific neighborhoods where Latino votes at depressing rates. How one designs a district often can predetermine a likely outcome given neighborhood voting history.
One does not have to look further than in the manner how District 1 was constructed. I walked a good portion of the Latino neighborhoods in support of council woman Jasso. I can share with you that the Latinos residents feel so out of the system that they view voting as a waste of time. It will take decades to change their mindset.Furthermore it must be noted that the neighborhoods in this district suffer from a multitude of issues ranging from generational poverty to teenage pregnancies. Even the best candidate cannot overcome these issues in one campaign to get a skeptical and indifferent population to participate in the political process. Frankly I used to think the right candidate could increase voter turnout.Nonetheless, your blog post brings up good points overall. It appropriately calls out the old guard of Latino leadership. Many people share your thoughts on this topic but do not publicly say it. The post is also correct in how nurturing and grooming Latino leaders is a more sure way to get Latino representation. My sole objection is that the most recent redistricting process made it a little more difficult to for Latino representation to be at City Hall today.
Sincerely,
Fernando Rubio