
	By Wednesday, the smoke from the raging political fires of Kiev had brought tears to the eyes of Ukrainians on E. Seventh St. in the East Village.
	"All I think about all day and all night is my relatives in Ukraine," said Oksana Ivasiv, pulling a mop from a yellow-wheeled bucket and swabbing the entranceway of St. George Ukrainian Catholic Church.
	"I have cousins, nieces, nephews over there. Everyone is afraid. But no one is willing to stop the protest. They don't care if they have less food, no new dresses, no money. The 50 million Ukrainians want freedom. Independence. Like in Europe and America. [Russian President Vladimir] Putin is dragging us back to the old Soviet Union days."
	She paused, leaning on her mop as her eyes welled with tears and a heavy winter rain pattered on the granite steps of the gorgeous Byzantine-style church where New York's Ukrainians pray for their homeland.
	"I have nothing against the Russian people," she says. "I love Russian people. It's the government we hate. We are the gateway nation between Russia and Europe, and that is why Putin wants to pull it back into his control with handouts to our president. With soldiers. Russian police. We want to be part of Europe, part of the European Union. Putin convinced our president to reject that. We do not want to return to be part of Russia. We all want to move into the future and freedom, not return to the terrible past."
	Ivasiv came to New York 20 years ago to join her father and two sisters in Little Ukraine.
	"I had a good job in Lviv," she says. "I was the manager of a big office. But the money was still bad. I wanted to come here to have a better life. Everybody is heartsick in the Ukrainian community this week."
	She says she sends money through the local Ukrainian credit union to the organizations supporting the protests.
	"We collect clothes and food in the church," she says. "We have three Masses a day here for the people of Ukraine. On Sundays at 4 p.m. we have one Mass in English where people can come and understand our situation."
	In the church office, Irene Bracero, St. George's secretary, sat at her desk in a state of agitation.
	"My phone doesn't stop," she says. "Calls from my father, who is 74. My grandmother. My two sisters text me all night. Things are so bad in Ukraine. All we want is peace."
	She stands. She paces. She checks her phone. She sits. She drops her head in her hands.
	"I cried all day yesterday," she says. "I don't sleep. We are all sending money. We will protest here. We need the American people to understand what is happening in Ukraine."
	Ivasiv tries to make it simple.
	"You have neighbors, correct?" she says. "What if your neighbor came and told you where to work? What school to go to? How to rearrange your furniture? What color to paint your walls? How to dress your kids? This is what Russia wants to do to Ukraine. They want to tell us how to live our lives. We will not let them."
	Now published reports tell us that a ring of fire fed by the protesters separates them from the police.
	"Putin tried to make nice while they had the Olympics in Sochi," says Bracero. "How many people know Russia stole Sochi from Ukraine? OK, that's the past. But now they want to steal Ukraine's future, too, by keeping us separated from Europe and America."
	The cleaning lady and the secretary of St. George Ukrainian Catholic Church paused Wednesday to check texts and calls from Ukraine.
	"I pray every day that God will help Ukraine," says Bracero, wiping a tear.
	"In the meantime, we do everything we can do to support the protesters," says Ivasiv. "People here are behind them 100%."
	dhamill@nydailynews.com