
	Clown shortage?
	You must be joking.
	Because here comes a clown car with Jersey plates lurching to the George Washington Bridge until it gridlocks in Fort Lee traffic. Out pratfalls Chris Christie the Clown, orange traffic cone on his head, big floppy shoes stomping all over his presidential ambitions, with a bright red nose that grows longer with every lie he tells about Bridgegate. Behind Christie emerges an endless stream of his top Bozo aides, waving subpoenas.
	So many real-life clowns keep emerging from the Christie Traveling Show that no one believes recent reports of a clown shortage. The clowns just ran away from the circus.
	To join politics.
	Take Donald Trump. Trumpy the Clown is a three-ring natural — silly orange hair and so bigfooted that even after making a laughingstock of himself in the President Obama "birth certificate" hysteria and serving as a rodeo clown in the presidential election long enough to boost his TV ratings, he now says he wants to run for governor of New York. Polling at 14% against Andrew Cuomo. Proving it's Trumpy's turn to be "fired."
	From a circus cannon.
	No clown won more international laughs than Thamsanqa Jantjie, the supposed sign language interpreter at Nelson Mandela's memorial service in Johannesburg. With the leader of the free word 2 feet in front of him, Jantjie the Jester somehow managed to bypass the clowns at the Secret Service, MI5 and the security details of the leaders of Britain, Japan and the UN to "sign" a Professor Irwin Corey rant.
	Last week, my old Brooklyn pal Curtis Sliwa, who still wears that funny little red hat at age 59, transformed his right-wing radio shtick into a full-scale clown act when it was revealed that he had unwittingly blind-copied his ex-wife all his confidential legal matrimonial correspondence.
	And our resident baseball clown A-Roid finally folded his circus tent. The last laugh was on Alex Rodriguez when he hired Joe Tacopina, the legal clown who advised former police commissioner Bernie Kerik to plead guilty on state charges four years ago that guaranteed him three years in a federal pen. Tacopina's A-Roid strategy? Sue Major League Baseball and the players union. Which is like Bozo suing the circus for treating him like a clown. Now, after paying Tacopina top dollar for this brilliant legal counsel, A-Roid dropped the suits and took his full-season suspension, ensuring him a spot as one of the greatest clowns in baseball history.
	Then there's John (Tears of a Clown) Boehner figureheading a do-nothing Congress controlled by a troupe of Tea Party comics headed by Ted Cruz, who shut down the government so the rest of the world would see the U.S.A. as a circus. At the time, Rep. Pete King, a serious conservative from Long Island, told me, "The country is being held hostage by Cruz and 30 or 40 Tea Party clowns who are also destroying the Republican Party."
	Closer to home, we watch Assemblyman William Boyland Jr., who beat one corruption indictment, getting arrested for allegedly soliciting a $250,000 bribe from two undercover agents to pay "legal bills for this legal thing" in the first case.
	Clown.
	Then Staten Island Rep. Michael Grimm, an ex-FBI agent, is questioned by a NY1 reporter about a different corruption scandal. When Grimm has no comment, the reporter turns to the camera and reports this to his viewers. Grimm, with the video rolling, threatens to sail the reporter off the balcony like the daring young man on the flying trapeze.
	Clown.
	Sen. Rand Paul insists on acting the clown every chance he gets and on plagiarizing other people's clownish remarks. And then Paul acts the clown when he's caught.
	So I ask you, what clown shortage?
	Save a red nose and floppy shoes for me because a few years back I caused a silly stir by venting that I hated bike lanes. Then the other day, as a balmy thaw set in, I sat embalmed in traffic on Second Ave. in Manhattan watching cyclists zip past me in the cursed bike lane.
	As I sat there frozen, feeling like a clown.
	dhamill@nydailynews.com