
	I was in a Queens batting cage last week watching my son's batting lesson when I spotted a cop I know watching his kid hit.
	I asked the cop about "the job" under the return of Police Commissioner Bill Bratton.
	"Funny you should ask," he said, sighing. "I just put in my papers today. I'm out after 28 years."
	How come?
	"I'm a street cop," he said. "But now we're getting a police monitor. Stop-and-frisk curtailed. And I figured, let me get out now before something goes wrong for me."
	So you're against these new changes?
	"It was bound to happen," he said. "Brass overdid it big time. You can't stop 900,000 people and pinch 6,000 guns and call it a success. As a rookie I had preconceptions that the projects were just all bad news. After a few months I realized that most of the residents are really good, decent people just trying to raise their kids. Most work. The projects are what they can afford. They hate the gangbangers more than us."
	He said that in 12 years under Mayor Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly, they escalated stop, question and frisk. "For every one, you gotta turn in a 250 form. My bosses wanted as many 250s as possible. I'd say, 'Listen, wouldn't you rather have 100 250s with 10 good collars or 500 with 10 pinches?' They'd always want the 500."
	The problem, he says, is that the people he had to stop and frisk to meet the unwritten quotas were often good kids, students, not gangbangers.
	"Kids of good people we relied on as our eyes and ears in the houses," he said. "You toss their good kids enough times and they start seeing cops as the bad guys. We knew who most of the bad guys packing guns were. But we were told to go after everybody. They overdid it in a numbers chase and you could just feel the backlash coming. Especially for street cops like me. One bad moment and you could get jammed up in this climate."
	He paused, gazing out at the falling snow. "So, I was torn, but today I finally put in my papers."
	Meanwhile, the Daily News ran an excellent piece of reporting over the weekend about the record number of lawsuits filed against cops. But pundits were more interested in flaying Mayor de Blasio for making a phone call enquiring about the status of a Brooklyn clergyman friend who'd been pulled over for a traffic stop and then held on two outstanding warrants.
	The story told us that Bronx Detective Peter (Pistol Pete) Valentin had been sued 28 times under Kelly's watch, the broke city coughing up $884,000 in settlements about which he told The News, "Once it goes to court, I don't follow it."
	Neither, apparently, did Kelly. Valentin's suits were among the tens of thousands that cost the city more than $1 billion under Bloomberg and Kelly. The News revealed what Bloomberg and Kelly never told us: That 55 cops had each been sued 10 or more times, accounting for $6 million of that tab.
	And de Blasio gets headlines for making one tin-eared phone call about the status of an arrested clergyman? (You know, the way Kelly made enquiries about his son Greg when he was questioned about an unfounded rape charge.)
	But what did Kelly do about these cops racking up more suits than Sy Sims? He promoted two of them, including Sgt. Fritz Glemaud, the second-most sued NYPD cop with 21 lawsuits.
	Then details gleaned by The News basically shamed Kelly into establishing a Civil Lawsuit Monitoring Program — similar to a highly successful one Bratton established in the LAPD — in the final months of a 12-year reign as NYPD commissioner.
	Six weeks in, Bratton's critics continue to predict an upswing in crime. Which reminds you again that the last time the city saw close to 2,000 murders a year was in 1993, under Kelly's first stint as commissioner.
	"I'm gonna really miss the job," said the newly retired cop. "They went too far. The backlash, the monitor and new stop-and-frisk policy are here. This job shouldn't only be about numbers. You just can't treat good people like skels without it coming back at you. So it's just time for a street cop like me to go."