Follow @SharonFGrigsby

Gromer Jeffers has an excellent piece in this morning's paper that helps explain why the Dallas City Council will likely have fewer Hispanic representatives when the new council is sworn in - despite a redistricting process that many thought would increase Latino council members from three to four.Both Gromers' column and an editorial we have planned for tomorrow's page on council race results touch on a critical - and itchy - question: When will more strong Latino leaders emerge in this city, particularly in southern Dallas?"First, let me say that while I supported our editorial board's position to recommend Scott Griggs over Delia Jasso in District 1, Jasso has been a strong council member. Not as strong as Griggs, in my opinion, but many districts in our city would be lucky to have her as their representative.I sure wish we had someone like Jasso competing in the redrawn District 5, which comes closer to giving Pleasant Grove its own council member than any previous district map. As is the case in District 1, District 5 is overwhelmingly Latino. Among the four candidates seeking that seat is Jesse Diaz, who is in a runoff against white businessman Rick Callahan.Diaz may be well-regarded by Latinos in Distrct 5, but you couldn't prove that on the basis of last Saturday's results. Gromer uses the word "baggage" when describing Diaz's challenges, and at the top of the list would be his status as a perennial candidate but never a winner.I spent almost an hour this morning looking through the hundreds of DMN news articles Diaz has been named in - an also-ran candidate; agenda-setter for local LULAC group; arguments with John Wiley Price; fiery language on school district issues stories; etc.Mostly Diaz seems to be a go-to source when a reporter needs a quote from "a Latino leader." The clips are less clear in regard to why he's considered a leader - beyond building a good real estate business and playing a big role in growing the Southeast Dallas Hispanic Chamber.Is that the fault of our news-gathering in Pleasant Grove or Diaz's credentials? I honestly don't know. Our editorial board recommended Diaz for the District 5 job - with a strong message to him that, if elected, he must work to represent all parts of the Grove. We made that recommendation largely on the strength of his time in southeastern Dallas — and more serious problems we had with the other candidates.Here's my opinion: Most of southern Dallas remains entrenched in "old school" politics. That means the leaders of yesteryear aren't ready to take a second chair - and newer members of the community who have fresh ideas and fresh faces don't feel comfortable challenging their elders. Even if their elders can't get elected. Or aren't as effective in office as less-entrenched leaders would be.Until this thinking changes, it will be the same-ol' story, election after election. The districts — and residents — of southern Dallas deserve better. But they are the ones who are going to have to demand better.