Recent reports that half a million savers at Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest will see their interest rates cut by the end of the year as part of what banks are describing as a "simplification" require examination. Earlier this year I noted that banks were offering savers and investors a miserable deal. Revisiting the situation, I now see that things have got even worse.By leaving their savings in low-yielding accounts with banks and building societies, British savers will lose more than £72 billion in potential investment income over the next year.According to figures from the Building Society Association, total UK cash deposits at the end of July 2014 were £1.2 trillion. The average quoted deposit interest rate was 0.62 per cent on instant-access savings accounts (assuming savers keep their money in long enough to qualify for a loyalty bonus of 0.2 per cent). The average fixed-rate bond gave savers 1.23 per cent over one year and 1.52 per cent per annum for those prepared to tie their money up for two years.Compare that to what's available from loan-based crowdfunders. They connect people who are looking for a better interest rate on their cash with companies that need to borrow money to expand.MoneyCo, of which I am CEO, is one of the newest loan-based crowdfunders. We have completed eight loans since May with an average gross yield of 8.2 per cent.  We take a fee of 1 per cent a year and so a lender who had invested in all of our loans since launch would be getting a net annual income of 7.2 per cent.The difference between leaving your money on deposit at a bank and lending it to companies on our site is clearly enormous. If all the money left on deposit with a bank or building society was invested in our loans, savers would get an additional £72 billion in interest in one year alone.To put it another way, if each of us had £20,000 of savings, we would be roughly £1,194 better a year off if we invested that money in a portfolio of our loans rather than leaving it on deposit.Some would argue that there should be a big premium for this sort of lending. After all, if you leave your money on deposit with a bank and something goes wrong, the government will be there to bail you out. Not so with a crowdfunding platform.And, even if the crowdfunding platform itself is financially secure, there is always a risk that individual loans will go wrong. My answer to that is that people lending money on our site must diversify their risk by investing in a number of loans with different risk ratings.My company is a member of the UK Crowdfunding Association, a body that exists to promote best practice in the industry. We will be applying to join the P2PFA as soon as we have completed the minimum six months' trading required to qualify for membership.On top of this, we require our borrowers to have three years' certified accounts and to be in profit. Moreover, we take a debenture (a legal charge) on the borrowing company's assets to protect lenders.This combination of diversification, best practice, legal safety nets and stringent credit analysis will reduce the overall risk.  It is indisputable that there is greater systemic risk to investors who lend directly via a platform rather than leaving their money with the bank, but the difference in the interest that can be earned is enormous.It's a risk, yes, but I think it is a risk worth taking.Nicola Horlick is chief executive of crowdfunding platform, MoneyCo. (www.moneyandco.com)