Follow @SharonFGrigsbyAs the details shake out on the miraculous escape of three women held captive in a Cleveland house for 10 years or more, two themes — one hopeful and the other chilling — are vying for most-talked-about.It's most comforting for us to stay close to the Good Samaritan theme, played out by the awesomely unvarnished and heroic Charles Ramsey who, as The New Yorker's Amy Davidson says, went to Amanda Berry's rescue because he thought it might be domestic violence. Here's one man who — even despite having a friendly relationship with the men of the house where Berry cried out from — did not look the other way. And just as important, Amanda Berry persevered all those years in hopes of finding that moment when she could cry out for help. Davidson sums up the importance of what happened like this:For Berry and the others to be rescued, in other words, two things had to happen: she had to never forget who she was, and that who she was mattered; and Ramsey needed to not care who she might be at all—to think that all that mattered was that a woman was trapped behind a door that wouldn't open, and to walk onto the porch.As my friend Tyra Damm put it — this is a story about the gifts of self-worth and recognition of the value of others.The second theme emerging is more Cleveland-centered — and not a bit uplifting. To what degree did the police and the community at large fail the three women released Monday?Connie Schultz, a Creators Syndicate columnist, reminds us that this is the same city where the bodies of 11 women were found in a back yard in 2009. The victims, all black, had plenty of struggles while alive and their families felt little attention was given to their disappearance.As Schultz writes today:This time, the headlines from Cleveland are better, but the news still leaves us breathless and full of questions. Amanda Berry, who is 27, was 16 when she was abducted. Gina DeJesus, who is 23, was only 14. Michelle Knight was 20 when she vanished in 2002, and police considered her a runaway. Little has been confirmed about these young women's captivity, but it is too easy for mothers to imagine the horrors.Steadily, more details about Ariel Castro dribble out. He was arrested for domestic violence in 1993, but the grand jury did not indict him. In 2000, he called police about a fight in the street, but there were no arrests. In 2004, police knocked on his door after Castro, a school bus driver, reportedly left a child on a bus. No one answered the door, and he was later absolved of any criminal wrongdoing."I'm not the only one on the block that feels ashamed to know that we didn't notice anything," Perez told the TV station. "I mean, I feel like my head's low, I work at a school, I work with kids. . . . I have a heavy heart right now."His pain is our pain. We all know that no one person is to blame, but everyone is at fault when we are a community of strangers.The idea that these "communities of strangers" exist all over our country, in our own neighborhoods, is sad commentary on us all. Every tragedy like this one reminds us of the need to be watchful on behalf of our neighbors, not just the ones we know. And that brings the focus back to the heroic Charles Ramsey, who — when asked if Amanda Berry needed an ambulance — responded wisely:She need an ambulance, or what? She needs everything. She's, uh, she's is in a panic. She's been kidnapped, so you know, put yourself in her shoes.