
	A mother's childhood refuge in the Bronx will continue to provide a safe haven for kids in the name of her son, a Sandy Hook Elementary School victim.
	"I have 15 girlfriends from Our Lady of Refuge parish who have remained close over the years," Jackie Giblin Barden says. "We have a Christmas dinner together every year. We stay in touch. We remember each other's birthdays."
	Then came the horrific shooting in Newtown, Conn., that left 26 people dead at a grammar school, 20 of them children. One was Barden's adorable son, Daniel, 7, whose bright red hair and missing-teeth smile tore out the heart of a nation.
	There was no Christmas dinner for the OLR girlfriends that year.
	"But they all came up to see me," Jackie Barden says. "They brought stuff only close friends would think of: paper towels, toilet paper, napkins, detergent. Stuff they know you need because you still have a family, still have a husband and two other kids. I love my childhood girlfriends. They really helped me through those first few days."
	But the people of Kingsbridge didn't just pay their respects and retreat into their lives.
	"This is one of those old-fashioned New York neighborhoods that defined itself by parish when we were growing up," says Arthur Wickline, a paper salesman who now lives in Philadelphia but returns to Kingsbridge to keep in touch with friends.
	Our Lady of Refuge is both a church and a school, enrolling children in kindergarten through eighth grade.
	"We hung out in the schoolyard, and on Friday and Saturday nights we hung out in the gym. It had Ping-Pong tables, pool tables, basketball, a TV room, a concession stand. It was the place," Wickline says. "There were nine Giblin kids in the neighborhood then, and there was always at least one of them in the gym, sometimes all of them. And one of them was Jackie Giblin."
	Jackie Giblin Barden, who grew up to become an elementary school teacher, remembers the gym as a refuge from the street.
	"It was safe and fun," she says. "No drugs, no violence, no gangs. The guys and girls mingled together. There was no social media then. No cellphones. Just kids interacting with each other, laughing, carrying on. We all made friendships that have lasted a lifetime. The same pastor, Msgr. John Jenik, was there back then. That's the kind of continuity OLR has. I basically grew up in that gym."
	So did much of the community.
	"After the shootings in Newtown, the neighborhood was stunned that Jackie Giblin lost a son," says Wickline. "We all wanted to do something. So we organized a basketball game. The Over 50s vs. the Under 50s. We charged $20 at the door. We expected maybe 100 people. Over 500 showed up and we did a 50/50 drawing. After expenses, we raised about $35,000 and sent it up to Jackie."
	This year they wanted to do more.
	They came up with an OLR Wall of Fame. "We sell each plaque for $500," Wickline says. "We're having the Daniel Barden Memorial Games on May 17, $20 at the door, all you can eat and drink."
	With Msgr. Jenik's blessing, the money raised will be used to lay a new gym floor and refurbish the newly christened Daniel Barden Memorial Gym.
	"The idea that the youth center where I learned about life as a kid will be named after my son Daniel is a very special thing for me," Jackie Barden says. "That other kids will come there to be safe and have fun and learn about life is fitting because Danny was all about helping other kids. One neighbor described Daniel as 'an old soul in the body of child.' He was such an unusual kid, so giving, so kind, always so concerned about others. Just like the people of my old neighborhood."
	Jackie Barden, who stopped teaching after the massacre, returned to her job this month in Pawling, N.Y.
	"It's a strange feeling being back in a school setting," she says. "I can see Daniel in every seat, in every kid, in every situation. I deal with reading test scores and kids who need extra help. There's a great comfort in it, but it also reminds me that Daniel would be in second grade now."
	She pauses to collect her thoughts.
	"The staff has been extraordinary," she says. "They have let me work part-time so I can still be a mom to my other two children, James, who is 13, and Natalie, who's 12. My husband, Mark, has dedicated his time to the issue of guns, so he's away a lot on speaking engagements. It's hectic. Last week, I came home and neighbors who knew I'd started working again left prepared meals for us. The kindness from so many people has been overwhelming. I guess you can say I've seen the best people can be. And, of course, the worst. But there are more good people, and that gives me comfort. Now my son's name goes up on the youth center where I grew up. Amazing."
	To contribute or for more information, email: arthurwickline@gmail.com