
	I don't believe Woody Allen is a child molester.
	But when I read Dylan Farrow's letter in The New York Times accusing her adoptive father of sexual abuse, I didn't think she was making it up. I believe it's a scenario she's come to believe after it was implanted in her impressionistic head as a kid.
	On March 18, 1993, after a Connecticut prosecutor declined to charge Allen after a three-month investigation of the same allegations, I interviewed him at his Fifth Ave. apartment.
	Soon Yi Previn, then his girlfriend and now his wife and mother of their two adopted children, answered the door. I sat with Allen in his living room. Previn excused herself.
	I asked Allen about the effect of the charges on his relationship with his kids.
	"In the past eight months, I haven't seen Dylan once, and I have spent a grand total of 36 hours with Satchel, my biological son," he said. "And those visits are just two hours a week. Supervised. They are intense because you try to jam-pack a whole week into that time. You rush from toy to toy and you have to brush past the things he says. Things like, 'I'm supposed to say I hate you.' And, 'Mommy is writing a book that she says will make you go away forever.' Or, 'We're getting a new daddy' and, 'I wish you were dead.' He would say these things but not act them. It was as if he were obliged to say them. It was hard."
	What would he say to the child?
	"I would tell him that me and his mommy had a fight. But that it would be over soon. I always made sure to tell him that his mommy is pretty and a wonderful actress ... I would change the subject, and we would go bake cookies, play with clay, show him a new toy. But every time I would start to feel bad I would remind myself that Dylan wasn't here and wonder how she was at that moment. Was she wondering why Satch could see me but not her? How confused can one kid become? And then I would have to refocus on Satchel," who now goes by Ronan.
	I asked about the finding by a team of child abuse specialists from Yale-New Haven Hospital that Dylan had not been molested.
	"The greatest feeling that came out of today's meeting at Yale was when the verifiers told me that I should see Dylan as soon as possible because she loves me and misses me," he said. "It brings me great joy, but at the same time, deep sadness. Because if she still loves me, I can't imagine how confused she is about my not seeing her. It will take a long, long time to answer all her questions."
	Allen paused when he was asked about Farrow.
	"You would think any mother would be relieved that a three-member panel, two of them women, found that her daughter had not been molested," Allen said. "But so deep is her venom that she actually sees this as a loss. That is terribly sad. She knows I never molested Dylan."
	I interviewed Woody Allen several times before and since that story. The press-shy writer-actor-director talks to me for a couple of reasons. One, my brother Brian had worked as a still photographer on many of his classic movies including "Annie Hall," "Manhattan" and "Bullets Over Broadway." Another is that we had a working-class Brooklyn connection.
	Allen and Farrow lived on opposite sides of Central Park. Allen told me he never once spent the night at Farrow's place. But after their romance ended, according to Allen, he'd occasionally ask Farrow to Knicks games. When she declined, Allen said, she asked him to take her adopted daughter Soon Yi Previn, with whom Allen said he'd rarely spoken.
	He took her.
	Previn was 20, Allen, 56. They fell in love. "The heart wants what it wants," was Allen's explanation.
	A May-December romance blossomed, similar to the once Farrow and Frank Sinatra once enjoyed.
	When Farrow found out, she launched an enraged public campaign against Allen.
	Then Farrow accused Allen of molesting their daughter Dylan, then 7, in an attic in Connecticut. A three-month investigation ended with the charges deemed unfounded by the Yale-New Haven team. The Connecticut prosecutor said  he thought there was probable cause to believe Allen molested Dylan, but he declined to press charges.
	Here's my problem with believing the story Dylan Farrow now tells: I'm no shrink but I've often written about pedophilia and leading experts tell me the first time a pedophile is caught he's usually abused an average of 13 children. Pedophilia is not a passing experiment.
	But in the 56 years before Farrow's initial accusations and in the 21 years since, there has never been another accusation of Woody Allen molesting another child.
	What he told me back in 1993 remains true today.
	"The burden of guilt is on you, not on the accusers," he said. "This is on me like a tattoo for life. There will always be some people who believe what I was accused of just because I was accused."
	Again, I'm not an expert but I don't think Woody Allen is a child molester.
	I also don't think Dylan Farrow believes she's telling a lie.