Follow @SharonFGrigsby

Blogging at day's end is always dangerous. The brain is pretty well spent. But with that disclaimer, I didn't want to leave the office before spotlighting this well-argued Clive Crook piece about Paul Krugman. Perhaps you must be an opinion-column junkie — as I certainly am after nine years in this job — to find this column as interesting as I do. It's one of those pieces that makes me downright envious that Crook could express something that I've thought but couldn't articulate.First, let me say that like Clive Crook, I admire Krugman's economic views and I tend to think he gets it right much of the time. But increasingly over the years, I've found myself increasingly turned off by his commentary and perplexed by many friends who worship at the Krugman altar. (Come to think of it, some of the most troublesome arguments that occurred between me and my ex in our final years of marriage were over my lessening enthusiasm for Krugman.)Clive Crook — without putting it in exactly the (tired) words I'm about to use — makes a good case for why Krugman deserves to be lumped into the Rush Limbaugh pot. Krugman's contempt for the other side and his disinterest in any opinion different from his own makes his work strategically persuasive to only his already ardent supporters.As I've written before on the blog, I definitely lean more toward moderate columnists from both right and left persuasions — and increasingly I'm more interested in the points of view of lesser-known columnists who are writing from a point of expertise, not a syndicated regular spot. Take this column from yesterday's Viewpoints page by Aaron David Miller on Obama's red-line problem in Syria. Or this one by John Dickerson on why Newtown wasn't enough in gun control fight. They focus on explaining, not name calling. They don't use loaded words or sarcastic digs — and they sure don't disrespect the people they are trying to persuade.Krugman is just one of many columnists who could be so much more influential were he to take this Clive Crook piece to heart. I know some will scoff at that sentence, saying he's enormously influential. But with whom?  I'll give Crook the final word:Really, I just wish Krugman would meet a wider range of people. It's true that the modern Republican Party includes a growing number of extremists who have no interest in the kind of discussion I'm recommending. In their case, attempts at outreach would be so much wasted breath. But if Krugman got out of his bubble a bit more, he'd find that the other half of the country contains no more than its fair share of knaves, fools and lunatics — and a lot of thoughtful, public-spirited Americans whose views on the proper scale and scope of government are different from his, yet worthy of respect.OK, I lied ... I get the final word. Just as Crook points to growing extremists on the right who have no interest in "outreach," let's be clear that the left has its own extremist edge.And no, I don't have a Nobel Prize for Economics, but I bet I'd beat Krugman in a DMN civility challenge. 