Roberto is a techno producer whose roots are in drum n bass. His lifestyle is of particular interest as he holds down a full-time job, a marriage and recently became a father for the first time, while juggling his production and DJ endeavours. We met sometime ago and finally got round to having a chat recently, here's the result of that conversation...You got married last year, you work full-time and now you're a brand new dad, how does that affect your approach to music?Well, it's always a challenge, my wife is very understanding and knows it's very important to me, it's part of who I am. Recently I've got into a new routine - I work full-time during the week (Monday to Friday, nine to five) I'm often working away on weekdays, too - I was finding that I would come home, spend time with my wife and it might be only the last couple hours of the day when I would get in the studio. By then, I'd be too tired to be productive - I realised that, mentally, I was a lot more awake in the morning. So I've swapped my day around now, I get up really early (around 5am) spend a couple of hours in the studio, then go and have a shower, then go to work. It's worked out a lot better because now I can relax in the evening without worrying about being in the studio, my mind is a lot more creative in the morning so I'm finding the new routine really helps, especially if you go to bed early. With the new baby and winter drawing in though, I'm not sure how easy it will be to get up in the mornings from now on though!You've played at places like fabric and Berghain, yet you still hold down a full-time job. Do you consider the music thing more of a hobby?I wouldn't want to call it a 'job', it's a serious passion. I do put a work ethic into it, it's almost like having a second job - I always work really hard at it because I'm driven by the passion. It's about getting your head down, working hard and making things happen. It's difficult juggling the two, and obviously if I only did music right now it wouldn't be enough to keep me afloat. That's part of the problem. I have my day job, I studied a number of years to be able to do that and I do enjoy my day job, it's not like I hate it. I'm quite lucky really in that respect.Your job is actually sound-related isn't it. How does that feed back into your music making?Yeah, I'm an acoustic consultant. I studied acoustics at uni. We have a bit of a joke at work that everyone at the company is a failed musician - we're all musicians there. It's more of an engineering role, we know all about acoustics but I don't get involved in studio building, although I do know a lot about it. We focus more on noise impact assessments for industrial installations like oil refineries. The same principles apply because it's based around sound, of course.What are you making time to work on at the moment then?I'm putting together a new EP for Fachwerk, Michael Denhert's label. We're just putting the finishing touches to that. I'm doing another EP for Affin, which is still in development and will probably be released next year. I'm enjoying just writing EPs at the moment, although I would like to challenge myself a bit more in the future and do an album, but I don't think I'm at that stage yet.It takes time doesn't it? Some people rush into album projects and don't quite get it right...Yeah, and I wouldn't want to just do a collection of tracks, I'd want to have a theme and some personal meaning, which I think is the difficult part - coming up with a concept and then realising it.How long did it take you to get to a point where your music was being recognised by labels that had some clout?For me, I'm 29 now... I first learned to use Cubase when I was 16. As soon as I left school, I went to college and studied music technology. I was using Cubase for a good few years - I was always into drum n bass, that was my thing, I wanted to make DnB. Growing up in Leicester, we had a really good scene there with Formation Records - I used to hang out with all of them. I picked up the technical aspect of making music more from being around those drum n bass producers than I did at college, where they were teaching it formally. They would give you a more standard approach, whereas the drum n bass guys were using the software in a more experimental way and it wasn't until I started talking to them that I understood how to get that sound and find your own way. Between 2005 and 2007 I was working on music more seriously and I actually remember giving the first few tracks I'd made to the guy who was ARing at Formation, thinking to myself, 'They're alright these!'. He was like, 'They're terrible'! He gave it to me bluntly, and I didn't take it well, being so young, but I'm glad he did because you start to build up a barrier then and grow a thicker skin.After that I went back to uni to finish my degree and I didn't have any time for music. When I moved back to London I started going to more techno nights with a mate and it was only then that I realised that all the sounds I liked in drum n bass came from techno. I didn't have any concept of what techno was before that. I put my studio back together and started working, it was maybe another year and a half before I got some stuff signed. Then it was another couple of years before I started to find a kind of original sound or something that was a bit more personal to me at least. I'd say the last year or two I've tried to slow it down and only release music that I think is the better end of what I'm doing, I do write a hell of a lot of music and it's only a small percentage of that that finds its way out of the studio. I'm trying to focus on just a handful of labels, too. So, all in all, it's taken a long time to get to this point.I was a massive drum n bass head too. What kind of stuff were you really into?I remember being at school in the early 2000s, all the tapes I was listening to were from the jungle times, say '95 or '96, and that was the sound I was really into but, by that point, it had been and gone. Then there was more stripped style, what they called 'Hardstep' drum n bass, and it was all straight drums with minimalist bassline and I did get into it after a while, but jungle was what got me straight away. I was into the Formation thing for a while, then my tastes changed and I got into what I guess you would call the 'liquid' sound, which was more Detroit techno influenced.Where were you going out in London when you came first across techno?I think one of the first clubs I went to was Egg, Jo Mills was playing on the second floor, it was more sort of tech-house stuff. Then I discovered fabric, which my friends and I went to quite regularly. The standout point for me was when Marcel Dettmann and Ben Klock played back-to-back at one of the WetYourSelf Bank Holiday parties, they're huge artists now but at that point they were just breaking through and it was just amazing.What would you say is the sound that you were intrigued by within drum n bass that you also found in techno?The Detroit strings and classic synthesiser sounds. What I did find with drum n bass was that making the tracks is very different to techno - with DnB you'd have to come up with a catchy hook and it would generally be for the bassline and you'd build the track around that. As I'm not musically-trained I had a lot of difficulty with that and my stuff was lacking in hooks and was usually a lot more padded out, but when I started making techno I was a lot more at home because it's more rhythm-based, I connected a lot more with it.So tell me about playing at Berghain...?It was amazing, totally amazing. When I got there, they have what they call a night porter who takes you in and helps you with your bags and stuff. They have a secret elevator in the back and we went up in it, as everyone does... when the doors opened, Mike Denhert was playing before me, and he was playing one of my tracks as the doors opened. And then he played two more in a row, so I was a even more nervous because I'd been hoping to play those myself. I went on for three hours, but it felt like 20 minutes, the crowd were great. It was between 12 and 3pm - so you get this period where the people who have been there all night start to drop off a bit and new people arrive, who tend to be more local, so it's a real nice mix. It was fantastic, absolutely brilliant.And just to close, I hear you've managed to find time to get a label off the ground. Tell me a bit about that...Yeah, the label is called Fossil Archive. The first release will come out in the spring around end of Feb or early March. It will primarily be an outlet for my own work, but will also release music by other great artists who I'm into. The second release is a collaboration between myself and my good friend Jamie Anderson. The releases will come out on vinyl as well as digitally. Because I come from a DnB background, it was common for a lot of those records to be cut with one track on each side at 45rpm. This gives a lovely sound and feel to the records. I'm aiming to do the same with Fossil Archive. The artwork will also be original and feature hand sketched fossils by friend Laura Will on each release.For more information on Roberto and his label, click here.Follow Marcus Barnes on @mgoldenbarnes