Grime MC Solo 45 is currently deep in preparation for his appearance alongside his crew Boy Better Know at this week's Red Bull Culture Clash. The grime collective will be defending the title, which they won at last year's event. They've got their work cut out with competition from Jamaica's legendary Stone Love, the A$AP Mobb from the States and David Rodigan's Rebel Sound. It's going to be quite a spectacle, and Solo spared a few minutes recently to name his top 5 sound clash tracks and to talk about Thursday's event...How's all the preparation going for the Culture Clash?
Really well. Last year we only had a day to prepare, if that. The track I performed, I recorded it in the cab on the way to the clash, we had to mix it while we were in the car! But we're prepared for it now. Yeah, you're defending the title this year so I guess a bit more preparation is necessary?
It's London, what can really go wrong?On your home territory you should have the crowd on your side. I watched the MOBOs last night and, above all else, grime seemed to dominate?
I think last year people were unhappy that the MOBOs had called grime something else, the artists were put in the 'UK Hip Hop' category and this year they sorted it out. Also grime is on the rise again, it's crossed over now and record labels are taking on grime acts as well, which is great.I've been into grime for well over 10 years now so it's been nice to its recent growth?
Yeah, it had its peak about 10 years ago when people were doing pirate radio and then it petered out a little. But now it's come through strong especially on the commercial side and the labels are taking notice. The thing is, a lot of people don't even care about labels, they're setting up their own platforms independently and putting the music out that way, with their own PR and everything. That's one of the main benefits of the internet and social media, it's given people the ability to take charge of their own public persona and to really push their businesses.And, finally, what are your top 5 sound clash tunes?Nas - Ether




Wiley - Therapy Battling




Tupac - Hit Em Up




Biggie - Who Shot Ya




Skepta - Wiley Diss




Red Bull's Culture Clash takes place at Earl's Court this Thursday, more information here