Dusan Kovacevic is the operational manager at Serbia's one and only EXIT Festival. It is a music event that has its roots steeped in politics and was conceived as a student movement which fought for freedom in the Balkan region. It is now one of the biggest festivals in Europe and remains active in social causes, this year using its position to raise money for the victims of devastating floods in the Balkans. I spoke to Dusan after this year's successful, though rain-soaked, eventSo, now you've had time to recover and look back over the last event, how do feel about this year's EXIT?This year's edition of EXIT festival was very special for all of us. This January EXIT was voted as the Best Major European festival out of 360 European festivals from 34 countries. Furthermore, we introduced concept of EXIT Adventure, which includes the newly-conceived Sea Dance festival, which takes place on Montenegro's beautiful coastline right after EXIT festival. The results were great - we had another record year with almost 260.000 people attending EXIT Adventure as a whole. For me personally, this year's EXIT was one of the best so far.15 years is a long time, what would you say are the main changes the festival has gone through during that period? Obviously, it has grown in size and numbers. Topics of social responsibility have varied throughout the years - from global campaigns against human trafficking to helping victims of the catastrophic Balkan floods this year.What does it mean to you to still be doing EXIT after all these years? I had pause in operational management for more than five years in order to finish my degrees and have some more personal time. I took over operational management once again less than two years ago, and since then the ride has been phenomenal. We won Best Festival Award, introduced a new festival in Montenegro and we are now one of the fastest growing festivals in Europe.What does it mean to Serbia as a whole to have an event like EXIT?EXIT has, to our enormous pleasure, become one of the most important Serbian brands over the years. I like to quote a publicist from the London Economist - "if Serbia was due to spend whole of its budget on PR, it wouldn't do as much as EXIT and Novak Djokovic done for it's image".What were some of your highlights from this year's festival?My highlight is always the festival itself. It never ceases to amaze me, especially the crowd and atmosphere. The best moment for me was just after Skrillex did his show on the main stage, we all went to the Dance arena. Maceo Plex was playing b2b with Danny Daze and we were having party on stage, with two of the world's top 10 DJs, Skrillex and Afrojack, dancing and enjoying themselves all night. Skrillex even missed his plane and stayed and finished the night with a special techno set at 9am. He stayed for two more days and partied at festival the following night until the very end as well. Damon Albarn did the same, as well as Theo from Hurts and DUB FX who even played a special set for abandoned children as well as a secret party in Fortress tunnels. Things like that are rarely happening these days, performers have very tight schedule and don't have time to really relax and enjoy themselves. EXIT is one of the special places where magical things often happen and where performers just love to come and play.I also enjoyed Rudimental, Hurts and Damon Albarn's performances, as well as the "I Will Survive" historical moment with Gloria Gaynor. Also, I must add that the atmosphere for the Skrillex show was magical with the main stage full of people until 4am.The rain appeared this year for the first time in ages, how did you feel when it first started to rain really heavily?Rain is never a good occurence for festivals that pride themselves with sun-filled days, but also some of the best times at EXIT happened during the rainy weather. Because rainy days are so rare, fans remember these wet performances more vividly. Fortunately, nights were mostly free of rain, and people were enjoying themselves as though the weather was perfect.It was great to see that the weather didn't have much of an effect on peoples' spirits, did you ever worry at any point that it might spoil the event?The worst day for me was Friday. For the whole day it was pouring like it was November. That was the first time I got worried. However, when I saw 30,000 people gathered for Rudimental at the main stage and 20,000 people for Carl Cox and Danny Tenaglia at the dance arena, I was more than relieved. For me it really demonstrated EXIT's ability to attract so many people regardless of weather conditions.What does EXIT stand for in the year 2014?So many things, but the top three would be:Where did the idea for Sea Dance come from?It was part of our long-term dream to expand EXIT to the coast. With Sea Dance, EXIT got the things it was missing - a sandy beach and sea shore.How long did it take to secure the location and get everything in place to make it happen?Everything happened very quickly. People from Montenegro and Budva government knew very well what they were getting working with us and were very helpful in securing all the help they could. Montenegro is another state, but it's one that is really close to Serbia on many accounts - history, language, geographically-speaking as well. When the option for collaboration with the Municipality of Budva opened up, we didn't hesitate, not even for a moment.How do you feel about the first event and how it went? First event was very successful, we had a turnover of 80,000 people, and some great moments you can check out in our video:What improvements do you think need to be made to Sea Dance?First editions are always tough, as you don't know exactly how crowd will behave on new location.  The overall impression was that the atmosphere closely resembled the one at the first EXIT festival, and that we were witnessing something big in the making. We're happy with how the first Sea Dance turned out, but we're aware of the many roads we can take to make it even better over the years, especially infrastructure wise.Any highlights from that festival? The atmosphere at the dance paradise stage, which was located on a sandy beach right by the sea, was more than impressive.What does the future hold for both EXIT and Sea Dance?It's very exciting times for EXIT and Sea Dance. EXIT is at its peak now and with Sea Dance we are one of the fastest growing festivals in Europe. Who knows, maybe we will introduce another festival next year...Where do you imagine you will be in 15 years time?I hope that together with the strong growth of the festival our humanitarian and social responsibility work will be even stronger. For more information on Exit Festival click here