A little while ago, as usual, a new name caught my ear - I'd received a promo package from Hot Creations featuring a track by Miguel Campbell, which had been remixed by a few people. One of those remixes really stood out, it was by a producer called Ceri. I left some positive feedback about it and never really thought about it again. A few months down the line, Ceri and I met through a mutual friend (Normski) but we didn't realise who the other person was until midway through our conversation. Typical! Since then Ceri's music career has progressed steadily with gigs at places as magical as Burning Man and fabric, to being signed to a great agency and becoming resident at one of London's most respected after-hours parties, Jaded. Read the full chat on my website here. So, to begin with, can you recall how house/techno first entered your life?
I always loved all music, especially dance music, from a young age I used to make mixtapes by recording off the radio, I can't believe that kids growing up now don't even know what tapes are! It was only when I started going to clubs between the ages of 14 - 16 that I discovered more underground music.Which clubs/club nights did you first go to, to get your fix of house/techno?
I started going to fabric on a Friday at first, then on a Saturday and also going to The End and AKA as well.When the idea of becoming more involved with the music first enter your mind? What was it that inspired this want/need to start DJing?
I don't know if I even thought about it really like it was a choice, it was just something I did without even thinking about it. I couldn't understand why some of my friends weren't in to it as much as me and didn't feel the need to obsessively collect and play music. I literally couldn't believe that everyone didn't want to do it and thought anyone who said they didn't was lying. I decided to take it more seriously and really get in to it a lot more after doing my first season in Ibiza though in 2007.Can you remember your very first gig? What was it like? Where? How did you feel: a) Before and b) Afterwards?
The first ever time I touched a pair of decks in a real club was when a friend let me join him for a set at one of his gigs in Southampton while I was at uni. I accidentally turned the music off for about 30 seconds. So I felt pretty bad afterwards! [Laughs]. [SYR031] Ceri - Make You Cry EP [Save You] by Save You RecordsSo how did you go from that first gig to picking up appearances at places like Jaded??
I just offered to play for free at loads of smaller bars and clubs. I was going out a lot at the time too, so I was meeting a lot of people and partying a lot as well. I went to The End and fabric every weekend for around 3- 4 years and almost always ended up at Jaded. I'd been going there for a few years as a clubber before I met Krista (the promoter) and Ray (the resident DJ) properly. At the time I was saving up to go traveling so I was looking for extra work - I started doing some flyer and promotion work for them, which then turned in to driving the DJs around. At first I didn't tell them I also DJ'd. I used to sneakily put on my mixes when I was driving to see if any of the DJs made comments. Some of them would ask what the tracks were and who did the mix. I would tell them what the track was but say I didn't know who did the mix, although I was pretty chuffed they liked them. When I became more confident I told Ray one day and luckily he was impressed! He then started giving me a lot of advice about DJing, as did Mouj who was their resident at the time. They were both amazing and gave me a lot of advice so I can't thank them enough. I always hoped that one day I would play at Jaded, but Ray always said that he thought DJs should 'never ask for gigs', so I didn't ask them and just hoped that one day they would ask me...When I started getting booked for other parties in London they started taking more notice and finally did book me. I had to text Krista the next day to make sure she meant it because I couldn't believe it. I was so nervous before that first gig because it meant so so much to me, that I almost cancelled!Now five years later I've been asked to be their resident, which I am over the moon about because not only is it a night that I respect musically, they have also become good friends. Jaded really feels like a family environment and it's always fun to play there because there's such an amazing vibe with a crowd that appreciate it when the DJs experiment. Ceri Jaded Mix by ceriWhat made you decide to learn how to produce in the first place?
I just loved music so much and wanted to make some myself. I'd hear music in my head but had no way of getting it out. I had piano lessons as a child but I couldn't read music so I wasn't allowed to take the exams and gave up after a few years. I've always been very musical but because I couldn't read music I couldn't go down the traditional music route. But when I started using Logic it became my instrument - you don't need to be able to read music to use it, you can just use your ears.What would you say is the most rewarding aspect of DJing?
Playing a gig when you really connect with the crowd and go on a journey together, there's no feeling like it in the world. It's an amazing feeling and so much fun, it's a natural high.And what about producing? What do you enjoy most about that?
I love how there's always new things to learn and find out. I can also get quite frustrated at times though because I put a lot of pressure on myself. I have so many finished tracks that I have decided not to release because I don't think they're good enough. But then, when you finish something and play it out and it gets a good reaction it's such a good feeling. I think I was making music for about four years before I dared to play one of my own tracks. I expected everyone to stop dancing but when they didn't I was pretty hyped!Things seem to be picking up for you with the Air London signing and Jaded residency, what are your hopes and plans for 2014?
I'm really excited to be on board with a new agency, Air London, alongside lots of people whose music I love and respect, they are a really nice bunch too, proper family vibes. The Jaded residency is also very exciting, as I am taking control of Room 2, which is an alternative to the techno in the main room. My hopes for 2014 are to make some good tracks and have as much fun as possible! I also have a release coming out on Save You very soon so I hope that it does well, as well as remixes on Suruba X and Sonora. Also, I just played at fabric for the 3AM Recordings Room 3 takeover, which is also my birthday weekend. Playing at fabric on a Saturday is probably the best birthday present I've ever got!My hopes for the rest of 2014 are to make some good tracks and have as much fun as possible! Learn more about Ceri by visiting her Facebook page here.Follow Marcus Barnes on Twitter here and Facebook here.