Two years ago I went to a festival called Movement in Turin, Italy. It's the European incarnation of Detroit's seminal event and was conceived after the promoters, Luigi Mazzoleni (Gigi) and Maurizio Vitale (Juni), first came across techno legend Derrick May. They reappropriated the festival in their hometown and have been putting it on every year since 2005. It has grown in stature year after year and I went back just two weeks ago to experience Movement again, while I was there I managed to grab Juni for a quick chat during his hectic schedule.How has Movement Torino evolved since the very first event?
The festival has grown in its production expertise. As well as the technical side of things, the has been a greater focus on its cultural program, which has strongly increased its international reputation in a positive light.What similarities does it have to the Detroit version?
We share the same passion for music, the same mission, the same brand. The two cities, Torino and Detroit, culturally and industrially have a lot in common.Have you guys been to the Detroit festival? What elements of their version inspired you?
I've been there few times. Movement Detroit excels in music selection as well as in festival production, this has been a big inspiration to us.And what about Detroit? What is it about the city that inspired you?
Detroit is the techno music world capital, it has a deep artistic culture which has also been a great source of inspiration.The venue for this year's main event, Lingotto Fiere, was insane, how did you manage to secure such a place?
We had the chance to produce two successful events there in the past, so the relationship with the multinational company GL Events remained strong and we managed to sign a six-year deal with them off the back of our endeavours.Can you tell me a bit about its history?
Lingotto is the venue that recalls Italy's industrial history more so than almost any other place in the region. It was Fiat's main production plant for 70 years; it's extremely functional for show production and it's managed by a professional team; it is a pleasure for us to set "Casa Movement" there.The festival is so big, how many people do you employ to organise everything? What's the most difficult aspect of organising Movement?
We employ some 350 people during the festival week. Difficulties are many: from securing the talents, to managing the finances, to complying with bureaucracy provision... it's endless but we do this for the love.What do you enjoy most about putting on the festival?
The joy of offering deep emotions to our audience, the pride of having done it in our own town, the fact we've realised a great, innovative and clever project during perhaps the worst time ever for entrepreneurs.What was your favourite moment at this year's festival?
I had the chance to enjoy the opening live gig at the Conservatorio, Sunday at the Superga Birthday Party starring Laurent Garnier and Agoria and Tuesday evening with DJ Harvey. During the main show I don't normally have chance to rest and enjoy things, but those were great parties. At our closing party I joined the crowd for almost all of Derrick May's set, which was a fantastic experience.Italians have such a great energy, where do you think this party spirit comes from?
We have a warm character and Roman blood. It's all about genetics... and hundreds of years of partying.Turin seems to have a strong history with techno, can you tell me a little bit about the scene there and why it's so strong?
Torino today is Italy's undisputed electronic music capital, it has an efficient administration, it has inherited many premises from the 2006 Winter Olympics and it is musically well-educated, those key elements along with our enterpreneurship allowed us to put in place here the two biggest electronic music festivals in Italy: Movement and Kappa Futur Festival. Unfortunately though, the club scene here is suffering like everywhere.What are your plans for the future of Movement?
We are working to make it bigger and better, more attractive to an international audience and working on building our digital output.For more information on Movement Torino, visit their YouTube channel Here. Follow Marcus Barnes' www.hoxton.fm radio show via soundcloud.com/marcus_barnes