Sometime around the end of 2011, I picked up a brilliant mix by Visionquest's Shaun Reeves. On that mix was a track that really captivated me, it was a while before I found out what it was - but, thanks to Soundcloud's expert ID-ing community, I eventually discovered that it was 1990 As In Gold Was Born by Gab Rhome.It's a beautiful piece of music, rather simple in its composition but nevertheless a special piece of music, which I hold dear to my heart. I recently got in touch with Gab after hearing that the track is just the tip of the iceberg... here's our little chat and a brand new mix he recorded for me.. Gab Rhome's mix for The Independent (08/2013) by Gab RhomeTo start with, can you tell me a little bit about your musical journey so far?
I could try to look cool and say that I started my musical journey when I still was in my mother's womb and discovered my grandfather's dub-techno record collection, but how it really started is when I started playing some instruments as a kid. I started with accordion, moved to trombone then to bass guitar and piano. I also did a couple of years of music theory, that's probably why the melodic aspect is always omnipresent in my music. Now I've been working in a studio environment for the past few years and started feeling okay enough about what I make to start releasing it.How much influence has your upbringing and where you grew up had on your musical output?
The fact that I started doing music at a really young age affected me, of course, but I really get more influenced by where I can be in the moment. When I make music in the summer, the music is usually calmer and softer than what I can do when I'm in the city of Montreal during the autumn/winter.Why were you drawn to music and not sport or painting, or some other such pursuit?
I'd say it's because I was exposed to music at a very young age. I started playing an instrument at six years old. I absolutely love visual arts such as painting, but I'm not that much of a great drawer/painter. I guess it feels more natural for me to play on keyboards.You say you've been playing an instrument since you were six, so what's your earliest memory of music?
I have the worst memory, so I guess the earliest music-related moment I can remember is me sitting in my studio yesterday, day-dreaming while watching my lava lamp.What did you listen to when you were a teenager?
To a lot of different stuff. Mostly ska, rock and jazz. Bands like Pink Floyd were, and still are, a good influence to me.When did you meander onto the electronic music path?
After getting bored of the (sonic and physical) limitation you can get from playing in bands, I discovered electronic music through the shoe-gazy sound of James Holden. It opened a whole new world of possibility to me - I started digging and discovered more and more of that electronic music thing. I unfortunately also fell in the cheesy side of the force when I was younger, but I think I've been able to come back.What inspired you to start making your own music?I'm a creative person in general, I needed to create something, to shout and express myself to the fullest. I always liked the fact that you don't need "a band" to make electronic music. No need to schedule a jam session in the middle of everyone's complicated schedule. You have a certain idea in the moment, you can express it almost instantly. I also like the practical purpose of house and techno music, a good night out can really cure your soul.Who were your musical idols/heroes?
My Bloody Valentine, David Bowie, Simple Minds, Coltrane, Davis, Vivaldi, Four Tet... the list can be really long as I don't really have "idols", just some musicians with music that influenced me.Who's influencing you at the moment?
DJ Koze's album is great, so is Mano le Tough's album and Clockwork. Stunning works from all of them.How did you get started with home production?
With the worst digital setup ever.What equipment/software were you using?
The worse equipment/software. No wonder I did the switch to analogue really fast.Please describe this set up for me!
A very old laptop crashing all the time, cheap virtual instruments and absolutely no idea of what I was doing. Even today I can't use VST software. I don't feel I'm going against the technological aspect of that whole electronic music, I just am more creative with being up in front of synthesizers I can touch and feel the warmth.What was the first of your tracks that really made you feel confident in your abilities?
I think it's 1990 As In Gold Was Born, I haven't really sent demos before this one. After making it that's when I really felt, 'OK, I'm ready'. I simply feel there's too many people trying to release stuff before they're ready, which leads to a saturated market. Sometimes it's good to wait a bit and let your sound mature. At the end of the day I want to be able to look back and be able to be proud of what I did, whatever it is.1990 As In Gold Was Born is such a great track, can you tell me a little bit about how it came together, what inspired the track - what story you were trying to tell, if any?
It's a practical track at the end of the day, but I always try to give a maybe more ''spiritual" feel to the usual listener. That's why I try to always be a bit more "mystic" and melodic than most of the dance music coming out right now. I'd be happier knowing that someone created a story of their own with the track than forced into a story I was trying to tell.How did you make your first industry connections within the world of house and techno?
I hooked up with people like Guy Gerber because he played in Montreal. I brought my iPod with me and had him listen to what I was doing. That was my first contact and a few months later I was signing 1990 with him. After that, I started going out a bit more to meet local people. I then started having friends in the local scene who could help me get in touch with other people. I made most of my contacts by myself though... That's what I like about this scene, no one's really impossible to reach. You only have to be respectful and demonstrate that you have something that could benefit them.Great! So I hear you have a lot of releases on the way?
"A lot" can be vague! I have solo music in the oven for Supplement Facts, Last Night on Earth, Supernature, All Day I Dream, and and a bit more that are a bit too long term to announce. As a duo with Maher Daniel, we have EPs started for labels such as All Day I Dream (and more that again I can't announce right now, keeping the mystery's always good) and a track on Audiofly's Supernature that was just released. I also just started working on my first solo album, which is going to be a really slow process as I want it to be a body of work that means something to me and definitely not the feeling of having made "just a long EP".That is quite a lot to me!
Thanks! I basically don't sleep the more I think about it...Why do you have so many tracks scheduled for release the coming months?
Because I've waited until I was fully ready before sending anything to the people I know from the industry. I'm also way too hard with myself and self-critical, so when I finish something it's because there's something special in it. I think that most producers, especially when they just started, are desperate to release as fast as they can. It can be such a bad thing... if I listen to what I was making at my beginnings I'd be ashamed to have my name associated to it. If I decide to send something to the labels I'm in contact with it's because I'm confident and (truly) believe it's going to be interesting both for them and me.Did you spend a short while making a lot of music or is it stuff that has been made over an extended period of time and is only just seeing the light of day?
I have quite a slow workflow, but I'm spending at least eight hours in my studio every day, so I'm able to keep up that way. All the stuff to be released soon was all made recently, all representing certain feelings in specific moments in my life.Do you have an ultimate aim about where you would like to go with your music?
Of course. I'd like to make music for movies at some point, that world is fascinating me. I won't lie, I love pools and I love California... that's probably why I want to head that way. Anyway, I keep these plans for when I'll start to feel old, which will not be too soon I hope!How would you describe the music you're currently making?
Groovy, sexy yet melancholic. I'd say it's really emotional as it comes from the soul. I think there's a big difference between melodic and emotional music, and I try to go in the more emotionally charged vibe.Are you working to maintain your musical endeavours or are you managing to live from music at the moment?
I'll be honest, I'm really having a good time right now. A lot of good is happening at the moment, new agencies, management offers and lots of good things to come. Money's not a problem for now either because I did ghost writing for a little while. I can simply fully dedicate myself to my music at the moment, which, to me, is a blessing.What are you up to at the moment?
Shenanigans and more music. I have some interesting music coming out in the next months, keep an eye or ear open! I've also relocated from Montreal to Barcelona, I've really fallen in love with the city. beautiful weather, women and great food.If you weren't making music, what would you be doing?
I'd probably be a beach bum!For more information on Gab Rhome, head over to his Facebook page hereFollow Marcus Barnes' www.hoxton.fm radio show via soundcloud.com/marcus_barnes