Here's a quickfire QA session with an absolute master of the techno genre - Electric Rescue, a Frenchman who has been involved with dance music and rave culture since its very beginnings in his country.His years of experience of course mean that he is very adept when it comes to music production and so, his new album Sonic Architecture is a collection of music with serious intent - varied in its influences and styles - but a cohesive body of work with ER's professional touch all over it. Enjoy!How did you get into electronic music?
I discovered electronic music really early in the Eighties, firstly with Dépêche Mode and other genres like new wave and producers like Yanni.  I then discovered acid house in 1988 through some records that a friend of mine brought back from London.As a young Frenchman, who were your musical heroes?
Dépêche Mode, Kraftwerk and electronic producers like Jean Michel Jarre or Tangerine Dream, but also some new wave bands and some hip hop producers, too.Which French musicians really inspired you when you were young?
No one, I was much more focused on English bands and artists.When did you start to get into making and playing music?
I started DJing in 1990, but my first bookings were in 1992 in some of the first Parisian raves like Mozinor with DJ Hell and other artists from that period. I started to produce in 1995 with a friend but my first releases were in 1998.What kind of music were you making when you first started to produce?
I produced techno and I never stopped.  Techno is really my favourite kind of music to produce, along with electronica as you can see in my album.What was your studio set-up like during this period?
I only had analogue machines such as the GEM S2, Rolands, Korg S2000R and a sequencer. Then, at the end of the Nineties, the computer arrived in the studio and slowly the synth left.What was the music scene like in your hometown during those early days?
The rave scene was huge.So where did you like to go partying?
I'm a rave child, my favourite spots to have fun were raves organised in unusual venues like castles, churches, factories and warehouses. I really like this way of doing parties as it's always an adventure and you never know where you are going. There was only one club I went to - it was Rex club of course.When did making music start to become a more serious hobby for you?
At the end of the Nineties when I started my first label Calme Records and I've also organised my own parties since 1993.  The fact that I was a DJ and had some gigs were all things that contributed but slowly and surely I decided to push it further to become more "professional" and do it as my job.What inspired your decision to take up music as a career, rather than keep it as a hobby?
The passion was too big and took up too much time. I was working during the day as an engineer with buildings and during the evenings I was working for parties and labels so it was a bit complicated. I felt that the music side could become a serious job for me, so I took the risk to leave my engineer job and focus deeply on my music.How did you get your first record signed?
My first record was the first release off the first label I created, Calme Records. I did that EP with my friend Pascal Morel. We released it on vinyl and sold some copies but it wasn't very good, it was the first one but I learnt a lot with it.Where did the name Electric Rescue come from?
Electric Rescue was the name of the parties I organised in Paris during the Nineties which were a big success over here. Then I stopped those parties and left my last DJ name "d'jedi" to take Electric Rescue as a tribute to the public from those parties who allowed me to become professional but also because I love that name. I think it's nice, bit also really complicated.Can you tell me about your album:
This album is a summary of the last two years, just after the birth of my son, Zadig. I made a lot of tracks during that period and kept 30 to present to Bedrock. Finally John and Scott asked me to do my own selection of tracks for it. I took 14 tracks and they agreed on it 100 per cent, I was so happy. With the album I wanted to provide some of my favourite musical faces; rough minimal techno, melodic techno, Detroit sounds but also electronica and vocal electronic pop with my friend Gran Cavaliere.How long did it take to make it?
Two years, I didn't work on it all the time but I kept tracks for it, the ones I really felt were right for it. It took a long time but I wanted it to be eclectic and personal without any compromises.What's the theme?
Sonic architecture is the combination of my two passions of music and architecture, as well as a snapshot of the last two years of my life.Sonic Architecture is out now on Bedrock. For more information on Electric Rescue, visit his Facebook page here.Follow Marcus Barnes' www.hoxtonfm.co.uk radio show via soundcloud.com/marcus_barnes