Follow @SharonFGrigsby

I had the good fortune last week to get to not only attend Don Williams' speech Thursday morning on behalf of southern Dallas but to also visit with some of our "Bridging Dallas' North-South Gap" sources. In every conversation, what was among the first topics raised? Superintendent Mike Miles evaluation system (announced last summer) that will lead to some principals losing their jobs.No less than six leaders who were on hand for the Williams speech expressed their concerns to me. Both at this event — and, separately, at two lunches with sources last week — Madison Principal Marian Willard's name, in particular, came up. From nonprofit directors to people who work at City Hall to southern Dallas pastors, they all were fired up and perplexed about word that Willard may well get pushed out of Madison. Their contention is that she has "turned around that high school."While much of the coverage in the media has focused on the protests themselves, Jim Schutze continues to provide excellent context on the politics of this story. Keven Willey previously highlighted this Schutze post regarding Madison. Also check out this more recent blog posting from Jim. Here's the most important piece of the latest Schutze reporting:Rated "academically unacceptable" this year by the Texas Education Agency, Madison has a particularly abysmal academic achievement record. For a closer look at just how bad a job Madison does, go to the Texas Education Agency website and enter the name James Madison in the search box. In the report you get, search for "college readiness indicators.The state reports have been junked up over the years with all kinds of not-to-be-trusted feel-good data — some it amounts to "much less illiterate than they could be" — so the one objective external measurement on the page is "examinees-criterion" under SAT results. That's the percentage of students who achieved what the district considers a minimum passing grades on the SAT tests.At Madison last year that percentage was 1. Yes, 1 percent. The statewide percentage was 49.3.No argument from me — nothing in the TEA Madison report screams out "turnaround."I expect that our staff will write an editorial soon telling the superintendent to stick to his principles (as opposed to his principals) and carry through on the evaluation/elimination process.But while that line of argument seems correct, it does nothing to bridge a serious communication gap. If you listen to what Willard's supporters are saying, she has done a lot right. And so, probably, have other embattled principals (Carter and Lincoln principals are among those in the same boat).Undoubtedly, there are still serious inadequacies in the jobs they are doing or they wouldn't face transfer/dismissal. And undoubtedly the district doesn't want to publicly air personnel issues. But in the absence of information, the concerns grow.DISD would have been better-served to get out in front of this communications nightmare by painting the grim pictures that exist at these schools. Based on everything I heard last week, the current situation is not just a matter of a few hotheads stirring up parents. This is a strong cross-section of leadership that disagrees with where the superintendent is heading.How about getting those leaders in a room and detailing the cold hard facts. Not about "will we" or "won't we" fire this or that principal. But "here's the academic picture in these schools."I know at least one of the southern Dallas leaders is trying to get a meeting with Superintendent Miles. Let's hope that effort is just the beginning of trying to bridge the communications gap.