I'm a newish homeowner in a Dallas conservation district neighborhood — and one who has already run slightly afoul of the rules. So I read Randy Loftis' article about the xeriscaping Junius Heights homeowner's travails with great interest. I also loved Jim Schutze's hilarious (and well-argued) piece on Unfair Park related to the "warfare" between him and his wife, DMN's funny and smart gardening editor Mariana Greene, over the Junius situation.I've only seen photos of  Burton Knight's landscape, but I must say that the idea of a rock-lined yard full of cactus doesn't sound very compatible with the other homes and yards in Junius, so I suspect I'd side with Mariana if I were a Junius Heights neighbor.However, the bigger issue — the power, and sometimes odd priorities, of the neighborhood "preservation patrols" — is a troublesome one. My neighborhood, Hollywood-Santa Monica, is a conservation district, with lots of rules that are responsible for (thankfully) keeping the McMansions out and the Tudor charm in. But within the neighborhood are homes and lawns that for a variety of reasons drag down the overall look.It's apparently OK if your house has holes in the glass ... or debris in the yard. And one guy does some kind of odd outlined painting on his yard and sidewalk (symbolic of what, I don't know, but ominous for sure). Several of the large picture windows at other homes frame piles of junk in homeowners' front rooms. And there's still plywood patching galore on the front facades of houses — the result of last July's hailstorm.And don't even get me started on some of the hedges that are planted all the way to the curb, clearly in violation of the neighborhood codes.But that kind of stuff never bothered me — until I got cited for "messing with the look of my house" when I had a french drain installed — under the ground, mind you. The drain, which runs alongside the foundation on the side of the house (not even the front) is covered with a small line of limestone pebbles. The pebbles, which aid in the drainage, aren't even visible from the street. Why did I have the work done? Soil had run down from the neighbor's higher yard onto the side of my house for decades, resulting in the weepholes being clogged.I was pretty proud of my "preservation efforts," aimed at stopping pier and beam rot, until the work crew received a citation. One of my neighbors had narced me out and sent a code inspector to tell me I needed a conservation-district permit for the work.Now this unpleasantness actually ended OK — after a few weeks. But every time I take a morning run through my neighborhood, I wonder about all those eyesores that don't seem to get any similar attention. The moral, I guess, is that a home in one of these neighborhoods can be bedraggled as all get out as long as it's bedraggled in a way that looks very 1930s.But I learned my lesson about the permiting! And, Mariana, you can always come stay at my house if things get too heated at yours!