Burnski is a talented young producer who hails from one of the biggest hotbeds of production in the North of England: Leeds. Last year he relocated from the UK to Berlin, another city which plays host to a large number of musicians, and he hasn't looked back since. His recent release on Birmingham based One Records, 'Let It Be' (featuring Beckford), has caused quite a stir, while he continues to put out a constant flow of high quality electronic music on a variety of other respected labels. I caught up with him to chat about his music and life in Berlin.How did your track with Beckford come about?I had the idea on my computer for quite a long time, with my tracks I have so many ideas that don't get finished. I sent some tracks to Adam Shelton from One Records and he thought I could do better  and so did I. We wanted the A-side to be something a bit different, a bit outside the box. So I went through my ideas, found the idea and thought, "I really like this, this could work". So I finished the idea, sent it to Adam and he was feeling it ... We were gonna release it without the vocal, and it was really last-minute, like the Friday, and I told him it needed a vocal. So he said, "If you want to give it a vocal, I need it by next week Wednesday". I knew the melody I wanted, so I started writing some lyrics, spoke to Beckford and he was up for it. I was actually playing in Coventry that weekend, so I stayed a couple of extra days, got in the studio with Beckford (he lives in Birmingham) and it came together quite quickly. I took it back to Berlin and pretty much finished it on the train back from Birmingham to Liverpool airport.Is that the first time you've written lyrics as well?Yeah, that literally was my first go and, honestly, I've got the bug now. I wouldn't say it was easy but,well, that project was easy but I'm working with other vocalists now but it's quite tricky because it's online they're sending the vocals back and it's never the first take. But I think when you're in the same room as them, if they go off on one you can pull them back in and give them a bit more guidance.Are you looking to push forward with more vocally stuff, then?Yeah yeah, some vocal tracks sound a bit forced but it's about getting the balance right. I'm up for working with vocalists and, if the balance is right, you've nailed it.What's your history?I started making music when I was like 16/17, I'm 26 now so it's been quite a while. I released my first record when I was really young, like 18 - it was more techno-y stuff, like Trapeze. Then I went on to more acidy/house stuff on 2020 Vision and then, came through to Real Tone...How did you set yourself up? Did you get to 16 and think, "Right, I'm going to get some equipment and make music?"Yeah pretty much, you know at the end of school when you have to go to the careers meeting before you go off to college? I remember saying, "I wanna do music". So I went on a music production course in Middlesborough and met some really good mates who are still mates now. Then everyone went to university after that, but I decided not to and got a part-time job at Vodaphone - I was just doing music on the side and just started getting some gigs. So yeah I've been doing it a while now.I think that shows in your music, there's a maturity to it. When did you decide to move over to Berlin?It was about a year ago, basically I was living in London and, from nowhere, the landlord told us we needed to move out of the flat. So we needed to get our sh** together and move. My housemate wanted to live on his own so I was like, "Sh**, what do I do?". I just thought, "I'm gonna move to Berlin". I just got to a point where I thought I can do anything now, I'd lived in Leeds, lived in London, I had nothing holding me back - I'd split up with my girlfriend, so I moved to Berlin.I guess it's going pretty well then?Yeah, I've got a nice flat, nice studio, good little crew out here. I'm really focused, it's a good base, really cheap, near to the airport. It's wicked, man.What are you enjoying most about living in Berlin?At the moment, the weather! It's getting up to 30 degrees some days. I just really like how quiet and chilled it is, it really is proper relaxed - you can do your stuff, get your music done. Where I am is a good location, the people are really cool. I'm meeting new people and getting out of my comfort zone, I think that's the main reason I moved here.Do you think it's helped you improve production-wise?Definitely, I'm a lot more focused in Berlin. In London I was all over the shop really, here I've got my head down more, built my studio more. I've got a lot more done.What are you working on at the moment?I've just tied up a couple of things, I've done a remix for Soma Records which is out in July and I've just finished a remix for Maya Jane Coles which I think is out in July also. It's a track called Believe, which is coming out on Alex Arnout's label, Dogmatik. I've done a remix for Crazy P which comes out on 2020 Vision.Burnski's Let It Be EP is out now, click HERE to pick it up, and for more information on the man himself, visit his Facebook page HERE. 