Making music only to give it away for free may seem like a strange notion, but in an age where file sharing and illegal downloads are widespread, adopting a different approach to spreading your musical message is sometimes the only way to achieve success. Pretty Lights (AKA Derek Vincent Smith) did exactly that and he recently joined electronic music superstar Skrillex on tour as well as amassing his own huge following. Add to that his amazing visual show, which gives his music an extra dimension, and you've got a very intriguing case study into where the future of music may lie.First off, what's your background in terms of how you came to become Pretty Lights? Did you have any musical success prior to adopting this pseudonym?From punk band, to funk band...funk/hip-hop band, hip-hop/producer/rapper (yes, rapper), electronica hip-hop band, electronica, to hip-hop producer. I didn't have much success before Pretty Lights, outside of the town where I grew up doing talent showcases and such, and local free concerts (those always sold out).When/how did you learn how to play music?I bought a bass guitar when I was 14 and taught myself to play, taught myself to engineer, and taught myself to produce. The teaching myself to produce part really accelerated during my freshman year at university... I didn't go back to school the next year.You made a transition from grunge to hip-hop as a youngster, what triggered your move from one genre to another?I was a kid searching for what was fresh. What I soon realised is that good music is good music. The genre doesn't always matter. I found hip-hop to be the most expressive musical genre at the time, through its lyricism. However expressing through lyrics and expressing through production are two completely different things. I eventually found myself leaning towards production as my preferred medium because I felt that I had a very original vision of where I could take the art form.With that in mind, name your top five hip-hop artists of all-time.Atmosphere
Wu-Tang Clan
Aceyalone
Eyedea
Jay-ZEveryone's concerned with the fact you put stuff out for free, but because it's such a risk, how secure were you financially before you put out the first free release?I was broke. My family doesn't come from money, and I didn't have a legitimate job.  I engineered at a studio for a bit but mostly used it for my own productions. I also pirated my fair share of music, and I had attempted to sell music as an unknown/independent artist before...it didn't work. It seemed quite obvious that because I believed in my music and I wanted to give it the opportunity it deserved, giving it away for free online was by far the smartest route to take.The whole free music/piracy debate continues to rage, which makes you an even more interesting case study... would you say it's come to a point where music releases have become nothing more than promotional tools for tours/concerts?If you are strictly speaking about making money, then yes.  But what I really want is to make music that has longevity. I want people to continue putting it in the music playing device (whatever that eventually becomes) and play it again and again because it is beautiful and creative and interesting and thought provoking and channels emotion. The massive electronica shows/productions are very popular right now, but will they last forever? Not likely.  Will good music? Undoubtedly.

Do you worry that making music free devalues it somehow?No, not at all. I've been asked the question before and it honestly offends me. Who gives a fuck if you paid 10 euros or dollars or pounds for an album or not... the value comes in the enjoyment of the music. If anything, it gives the music more value because the listener has to actually be impressed and really love what they are hearing.  How many times have you spent money on something and felt guilt-tripped into using it or listening to it or watching it, even though it's shit just because you spent your hard earned money on it?  So NO, it does not devalue it in any way and anyone who thinks so is trying to grasp onto the past, while cultural and technological evolution pass them by.With so much free music also, consumers' attention spans appear to be diminishing... the market is saturated with so much music, what does it take for someone to really stand out in the current climate? Well it has to be extra fucking good.  If anything this relates to your last question and will inevitably push musicians to make better music in order to stand out.  My style has now been imitated countless times and thus it is time to push myself further and create something that not just any kid with a laptop can copy...  That is why my new record will be exactly that.Any advice for young people who are considering buying some production equipment and trying to make it big?If making it big is your main motivating factor, save your money, or light it on fire. If young people want to buy some production equipment and push the evolution of music in order to make something beautiful, well then, I would say learn how to do what your influences are doing, and then change it, find a way to make it different. On a very basic level, I use Ableton Live with a studio of outboard analog gear and a patch bay to connect everything back to Ableton and I now create my own vinyl samples through a long and tedious (but beautiful) process but, that's expensive. So use VSTs (Virtual Sound Technology/software plug-ins) and drum break loops and vinyl samples from the basement of the local record store, but make something NEW.Did you enjoy being on tour with Skrillex? Did you get to hang out much?We got to hang out a little - we had five shows in four nights so it was a super fast paced tour and he is a fucking ultra mega rockstar, so it's hard to really find time to kick it. Coolest nicest dude you'll ever meet though, and he did exactly what I am talking about - he took a genre and made it his own, with new sounds and approaches to the genre. Sonny is the man.How has your live show evolved in the last few months?I am moving away from the typical animation based video that comes along with electronic shows and trying to elevate the visuals of the show to a place that matches the emotional content of the music I produce. A lot of organic filming and pushing the synchronicity aspect, as well as a constant push to evolve how the music is delivered to the audience. No CDJs, no pressing play on Ableton, but actually continuing the pursuit of a production performance that is stable and banging, yet continually changing and reinventing itself.What does the future hold? Any firm plans for the next 12 months or so?I'm definitely getting into producing audio and video side by side. I just want to make beautiful next level art. My new record will come out in the coming months along with a mini documentary about how it was made, so as of now that is my main focus. Actually my double main focus.Electronic music is exploding in the States, what's it like for someone like yourself who's in the midst of this huge growth spurt?Strange, Competitive, Non-Stop, and Fucking Awesome.Finally, since you seem to have an eclectic taste in music... which genre do you really despise?Cheese. I like to eat it, but I despise listening to it.Catch Pretty Lights in action at the Glade Festival and Sonar. For more information go to www.prettylightsmusic.com.