Since the dawn of time many different styles and forms of music have been created and, unfortunately, forgotten. Psych is a form of music that has its origins in the sixties, that heady era when the world went through a cultural revolution and, for a time, everyone was pretty optimistic about the world we live in. For many, psychedelic rock became the soundtrack to this era - but, of course, the sixties couldn't last forever. Although the music and the 'revolution' dissipated, there are still those who collect music from this era and some who even make music that takes influence from the psych era. One such man is Richard Norris AKA Time And Space Machine, who has a new album out at the moment which stems from his love of psyche.When did you first get acquainted with psych? What was it about the music that really appealed to you? I got my first taste of psychedelic music when I was working with Phil Smee at psychedelic reissue label Bam Caruso. The label was the first to properly license and compile the key UK psychedelic 45s of the era, unearthing little heard three-minute mid to late 1960s gems. Phil even invented a word for these tracks, that were mainly mod records that took a left turn and added a hint of acid - he called it 'freakbeat'. Bam Caruso also put out the soundtrack to The Prisoner TV series and albums from the Seeds, Nirvana, the Left Banke, July and more. I'd sit up in Phil's office, in my role as tea boy/label manager, rooting through his many thousands of records, making tapes for days on end.I was particularly attracted to this music as it was a fine example of using the recording studio as an instrument. On a lot of these records, the sound processing, the effects, were as important as the beat or the melody, and were generally turned up to eleven, creating a music of the senses, of sensation. It was that feeling of sensation through sound that appealed to me.Which artists would you consider to be the archetypal psych exponents? Who would you recommend as an introduction to the genre?I'd start with a few choice compilations, as many great psych moments are brief flashes of inspiration distilled into a deranged three minutes or so on a vinyl 45. Bam Caruso's Rubble compilation series features 20 albums worth of British gems, while in the US, the Nuggets and Pebbles sets are the benchmark. Elsewhere  you can't go wrong with the international flavours of the compilations on Andy Votel's Finders Keepers label.You have a vast record collection - can you give me a little breakdown of how you amassed your collection and its significance to you? Bit of a morbid question - but what's going to happen to them all when you've 'passed on'?I started collecting when I was working at Bam Caruso and haven't really stopped since, although I'm less obsessive about it these days. I don't need to find original vinyl copies of everything, a reissue or a CD will do - but somehow the sea of black plastic keeps growing. I'll give them to my family or a library when I'm gone. Might take a couple with me, mind.Fill me in on your new album, why did you decide to make it, how long did it take etc... Was it your intention to be as authentic as you possibly could in terms of the soundscapes used within psych?Psychedelia was the starting point with Time And Space Machine, but not particularly with the idea of making something that sounded like an authentic sixties record... it was more of a springboard. Sure there's some backwards guitar, phasing, tape echo, etc... yet the influences have developed on the new record, Taste The Lazer. There's a bit of post-punk funk, some German motorik grooves, a bit of Balearic. The most exciting development is putting together a six-piece band to tour the record. Slowly but surely we're developing our own sound. You can hear that in tracks like Black Rainbow, which was written to be played live.Name your top 10 psych tracks of all time. 1. Pink Floyd - Interstellar Overdrive
2. Nirvana - Rainbow Chaser
3. The Factory - Path Through The Forest
4. Love - Alone Again Or
5. Hearts and Flowers - Tin Angel
6. Country Joe and The Fish - The Masked Marauder
7. The United States of America - Garden of Earthly Delights
8. The Third Eye - Pass Myself
9. Wimple Winch - Rumble on Mersey Square South
10. The Open Mind - Magic PotionYou make a lot of other music too and you've written about it (as a journalist) - where did the fascination with music begin?With punk rock. The whole idea that anybody could make a record, the DIY ethos. I made my first record when I was a teenager, took it up to London, to the Rough Trade record store, with my dad. Rough Trade bought almost the entire pressing on the spot. We then went to the BBC and asked to see John Peel, who came and spoke to us and played the record the next night. That left a lasting impression on a 14 year old!What's the most you've ever spent on a record? And the greatest lengths you've gone to to find an elusive record?Not thousands, probably not even hundreds. I'm more into just hearing the music and a lot of stuff is reissued so that's fine by me. I don't go on many great hunts for vinyl in the UK, but every time I DJ abroad the first thing I ask is where the local record shop is. And promptly spend my DJ fee.What tracks/artists have you really been digging lately, old or new?New: The Stepkids, Black Market Karma, The Paperhead, Toy, Pond (one of Tame Impala). Looking forward to the new Avalanches set, which is finally coming out this year.Old: Family, The Trees, Sandy Denny, Shirley Collins (who lives round the corner, in the shadow of the castle), Traffic, and the Robert Plant/Alison Krauss album, which continues to amaze.What are you working on at the moment? Producing a cult folk collective called The Order Of The 12, rehearsing the Time And Space live band, remixing Toy and St.Etienne, looking forward to touring this summer.What's your ultimate dream in terms of music production? To have a studio in a castle. Currently my studio is only a few feet away from a castle, so I'm pretty close. The Time And Space Machine - Pill Party In India - Original Mix by RichardNorrisTaste The Lazer by Time And Space Machine is out now available from HERE and for more information on Richard click HERE. 