Earlier this year video of DJ duo Art Department playing a track with the chorus 'You and I, we are like... cocaine and ketamine' spread like wildfire on the net. The infectious, and blatant drug-related lyrics striking a chord with many partygoers around the world. As with many exclusive, unreleased tracks, nobody knew who it was by and so the hunt began. Finally somebody found out and announced on YouTube that Venezuelan twosome Fur Coat (Sergio Munoz and Israel Sunshine) were responsible. The track was 'You And I', featuring the vocals of Cari Golden, and it's become a club anthem thanks to its lyrical content (using drugs as a metaphor for a destructive relationship). Fur Coat are appearing in London this Bank Holiday weekend, so I caught up with one half, Sergio, to discuss the scene in Venezuela, their success and, of course, that song.Firstly can you fill me in a little on your individual histories as DJs/producers? When did you get started?Israel started DJing in the late nineties and producing in 2006. I (Sergio) started to DJ in 2003, and got into production within a couple of years. We came together as Fur Coat in the summer of 2010 in Barcelona.What were your early influences?Our early influences come from disco, soul, funk, hip hop, salsa. In modern electronic music terms - Innerversions, Carl Craig, Ricardo Villalobos, Damian Lazarus, Crosstown Rebels, Ame, Moodymann to name a few.How did you get together as a double act?We've been friends since 2005, playing back-to-back together and travelling to many parties around Venezuela and the rest of the world. But it wasn't till 2010 that we came up with the whole idea of being a production duo. Since then Fur Coat was born and here we are.Now can you fill me in on the music scene in Venezuela? Where are the good clubs?Caracas is where it all happens but there are some other cities that have a good little scenes such as Barquisimeto, Maracaibo and Valencia. Nowadays, with all the political problems, clubs have been forced to close and electronic music parties happen less in big clubs, sticking to underground locations such as rented private houses.Which other producers/DJs should we check out from your country? In Venezuela, people like Baffa and Moreon are making some cool music. Argenis Brito has spent a lot of time on the scene there but is now based in Berlin. Jauregui and Romero are also making some cool stuff and have just signed to Souvenir Music.Were there any local DJs who really inspired you?The scene in Venezuela is very underground, so really, our inspiration came mainly from Europe and outside Venezuela.What's the scene like in general, compared to other South American countries?We have played in Chile, Peru, Uruguay, Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Dominican Republic to name a few... The difference is our political situation, that has fucked up things economically, and having restrictions on currency exchange. People can't buy foreign money freely so a black market for Dollars and Euros has been born. This makes it very difficult for promoters and clubs to bring DJs from outside, due to the high costs. No matter what, we still keep on fighting for it, for instance, on March 30, Luciano played at a private party in Caracas, so there is a passion and force to make things happen.Everything seems to be going great for you at the moment, how does it feel to be in the limelight and getting great feedback about your music?It feels really great, we are so happy to get this exposure and thank Damian Lazarus for bringing us into the Crosstown Rebels family - it has been the impetus of our career for sure. The fact that we're getting such great feedback from people is amazing. We're so happy to have a growing number of followers each day. We just want people to get a glimpse at our vision of music. Our album has a lot of material and will show people who we are and what our sound is all about. For us it's a nonstop process, we want to keep producing and expressing our feelings and ideas through music.Of course, being with Crosstown Rebels has been a big help for you - how did you make that connection? Was it as simple as sending a demo to Damian?We always say it's being at the right place, at the right time, with the right people and the right music. In our case it was simple, quite unbelievable. We sent a four-track demo to Damian and the next day we where talking about developing the project. So not only were we getting our tracks signed, Damian wanted us to be an exclusive act for the label. Crosstown Rebels has always been a label that we admire, such an impressive catalog through the years, plus we admire Damian's work, so what more can we ask for. The whole experience has really blown us away.Now you're part of such a large, well-respected family, do you feel added pressure to produce great music?Well it's important to always challenge yourself musically and keep raising the bar. We always want to better ourselves and try new production techniques. Of course, there is outside pressure but in a good way as we are good friends with the family and we admire their work. It's very gratifying to get great comments from other DJs and producers from the crew. But the most important thing is staying true to ourselves and really putting our heart, time and effort into every track we decide to finish and put out there. Damian is very picky with the tracks, so he is another factor keeping us on our toes!I saw you play at Get Lost in Miami recently, how was your trip? Was it your first time at WMC?No we have been frequent visitors to Miami and the conference for the last five years. The trip is always amazing; we do some shopping, we walk around, see all of our friends that are in the same place for a week, we eat some amazing food (we know many top notch places), we play our gigs... Playing at Get Lost on the terrace is all we can ask for, there is nothing more magical that playing outside in the sun with the great vibe of the crowd, and being appreciated for what we are doing.I have to ask about 'You And I' as it's become such an anthem already... How did you make the connection with Cari?

We just wrote to her on Facebook or Soundcloud, I don't remember exactly, but she came back to us right away. We sent her the track; talked about the kind of lyrics we wanted but left her free to work things out. She came back to us with the final vocals, and they were perfect.Who wrote the lyrics?Cari wrote the lyrics, we really want singers to express themselves with the words. We start with an idea for the tone of the track - maybe the story and then the singer goes away to write. When they come back to us, we have to identify with the lyrics. In this case we love the analogy of drugs and a tormented, addictive relationship.Did you ever worry about releasing a song that made such obvious drug references?Not at all, the track is not all about drugs - it has more to it. Many people will just hear the catchy chorus, but you have to listen to all the lyrics to really know what Cari is singing about. The whole story about love and drugs blew us away. Plus, the song came together seamlessly.Have you had any negative feedback from anyone about it?There will always be people that don't like your work, it happens to everybody, no hard feelings. Our music is a love/hate thing, there is no in between. We will just leave this decision to the listener.What do your friends and family think about your success?We are thankful to have our families as close friends supporting us. We've been working for many years on our music, and we are now getting to the position we have always wanted to be in. From now on we just want to keep on growing and always evolving our music. The sky is the limit... We will always follow our dreams.What are you up to next, music-wise? Our album is almost done; it's called 'Mind Over Matter' - coming out this summer on Crosstown Rebels. We have the final track list done, we're just figuring out the finer details. We also have an upcoming remix for a Climbers track called 2CB that we're playing out in our sets, we are really happy with that one.Listen to a mix Fur Coat recorded for London party stable Return To The Future below. For more information on the duo visit their Facebook page HERE. 